in such regions the sectors of communications, infrastructure, aid to smes, energy, the protection of traditional small-scale initiatives, among others, carry no systemic significance in the context of the continental single market.
sometimes i start to think we live in two different worlds because, let's be honest, not yesterday, nine years ago, a european law was passed that was supposed to reduce car pollution.
for example, it supports traditional and artisanal fishing gear which has a fairy low impact on the ecosystems and the environment in general and also, among others, provides new methods for the allocation of quotas for each member state.
the plan encourages more sustainable fishing practices such as restricting fishing within certain areas and within certain time periods, and using methods that have a low impact on the general marine ecosystem.
‒ despite the successful directive 2009/142/ec, that sets out essential requirements that appliances burning gaseous fuels must comply with in order to be made available on the eu market, there are issues mainly related to simplifying the european regulation environment in the field of gas appliances and fittings, clarifying and aligning existing provisions.
‒ the eu may proceed to define and pursue common policies and actions in order to foster the sustainable economic, social and environmental development of developing countries, with the primary aim of eradicating poverty, thus i voted in favour.
in fact, these are granted to countries which ratify and implement core international conventions relating to human and labour rights, environment and good governance.
they are full members of society, whose vulnerability makes them victims of the behaviour of the adults around them, suffering the effects of an environment polluted with poverty, violence, discrimination, and other exploitation.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation as i support the stabilisation and association agreement between eu and the european atomic energy community and kosovo, which seeks to establish an even firmer relationship between the parties.
‒ while we often speak of climate change, environmental pollution and its effects on human life, we rarely find concrete instances where action is speedily taken to investigate specific cases of gross negligence or incorrectness with the aim of ensuring that these actions are not repeated.
through this resolution, parliament is calling for better defined legal criteria which will help address a number of issues within the field of human rights, such as the establishment of a legal definition of climate refugees and the recognition of climate change as a force behind the movement of people and migratory pressure, amongst others.
‒ air pollution is harmful to the human environment, yet pollution does not contain itself to one state and so cannot be addressed through single individual state action but only through joint international action.
i have voted in favour of this report which supports the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants.
action that deals with pollution and environmental issues needs to be kept under continuous review.
‒ i supported this amendment to the aarhus protocol on heavy metals, as the amended protocol sets out, in particular, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain major stationary sources, as well as flexible transitional arrangements that shall benefit those parties that will accede to the amended protocol before the end of 2019. the amendment is fully consistent with existing eu legislation.
‒ i voted in favour of ratifying the amendment because i believe it is important to take a proactive role concerning the health of our environment.
specifically, this amendment aims to limit dust emissions from fixed sources, and to lower transboundary air pollution.
‒ i gave my full support to the report on amending the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals.
the amended protocol sets out, in particular, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain major stationary sources, as well as flexible transitional arrangements that will benefit those parties that accede to the amended protocol before the end of 2019.
in writing.
‒ the protocol in question aims at reducing emissions from industrial sources (iron and steel industry, non-ferrous metal industry), combustion processes (power generation, road transport), and waste incineration.
‒ i supported this amendment to the aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants, as the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates implementation requirements for several substances, updates restrictions for pcdd/pcdf emissions from several sources and adds pcbs to the list of substances affected by the total annual emission restrictions and reporting obligations.
‒ i voted in favour of the amendment because it is an important step to further curb and lower air pollution.
the new amendments place new restrictions upon dioxin and furan emissions, as well as add pcbs to the list of substances affected by overall emissions limits and reporting obligations.
‒ i gave my full support to the report on amending the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants.
the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates implementation requirements for several substances, updates restrictions for pcdd/pcdf emissions from several sources, and adds pcbs to the list of substances affected by the total annual emission restrictions and reporting obligations.
‒ biodiversity has an overwhelming intrinsic value that ensures a safe and healthy environment for future generations, benefiting also human health.
when we read scientific research which indicates the woes caused to our health because we have not cared enough for biodiversity and our environment, this in itself is sufficient reason to fully support this report.
for those who are somewhat reluctant to accept the benefits of having strong environmental laws, it is good to point out that the economic opportunity cost of missing the biodiversity headline target is estimated to be eur 50 billion a year!
everyone is a stakeholder in environmental and biodiversity protection, be it private individuals, private enterprise or governments.
parliament’s report, which i supported, expresses concern about the continuing loss of biodiversity and underlines that the full implementation of the nature directives and adequate financing are vital prerequisites for the success of the strategy.
it highlights the need for policy coherence, in particular between biodiversity protection and agriculture and forestry, and urges the commission and member states to redirect financial resources under the common agricultural policy from environmentally harmful activities to sustainable agricultural practices.
‒ i supported this report on the eu biodiversity strategy.
we need to do more to protect our natural environment.
‒ the main aim of the strategic own-initiative report on ‘the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy’ is to respond to the commission proposal for the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy.
the report supports strong protection for the restoration of our natural environment and it sends out a strong political signal on the need to act urgently to protect europe’s nature for the benefit of our citizens.
the soybeans in these three authorisation processes in question are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health.
the soybeans which have been authorised are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health.
the commission must come forward with a new proposal for gmo food and feed, which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of gmos.
the soybeans in these three authorisation processes in question are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health.
‒ i rejected the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. the soybeans which have been authorised are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health.
the commission must come forward with a new proposal for gmo food and feed, which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of gmos.
the soybeans in these three authorisation processes in question are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health.
‒ i rejected the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788. the soybeans which have been authorised are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health.
the commission must come forward with a new proposal for gmo food and feed, which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of gmos.
‒ i voted against this motion for a resolution because the alternative was vetoing the agreement, which would have led to creating a legal vacuum for at least two years combined with uncertainty for car owners and the industry and absolutely no progress for the environment.
on the contrary, now the eu can rapidly implement the on-road tests, which together with the planned commission proposals for a major overhaul of the eu type approval framework will make it very difficult for the car industry to circumvent the emissions requirements.
road emissions test are more effective than laboratory tests which had been the norm until now.
my vote helped to significantly cut pollution emissions by diesel cars in the short term.
‒ vehicle emissions are one of the major causes of air pollution for which we need concrete measures to not only counteract its effects but also to prevent it.
the proposal to introduce a real driving emissions test for all vehicles so as to ensure the effectiveness of emission control systems has already been the subject of a resolution which was voted in by the european parliament on 27 october 2015. today’s resolution asks the commission to withdraw a draft regulation and submit a new one introducing the driving emissions test in the manner proposed.
while i fully support the need to ensure effective implementation of measures that prevent pollution even from vehicle emissions, i do not believe it will bring better protection to seek the withdrawal of a draft regulation.
vetoing the agreement would have led to creating a legal vacuum for the next two years combined with uncertainty for car owners and the industry and absolutely no progress for the environment.
now the eu can rapidly implement the on-road tests, which together with the planned commission proposals for a major overhaul of the eu type approval framework will make it very difficult for the car industry to circumvent the emissions requirements.
for the sake of our own health and following the recent emissions scandal and the fact that numerous devastating lung diseases and more than 600 000 premature deaths are linked annually in europe to air pollution, i believe that we have the obligation to protect consumers and provide a better air quality for our citizens.
that is why i voted in favour of the objection pursuant to rule 106 on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6).
this is why i commend the efforts of the united nations and member states like my own, malta, for taking on an active participatory role in bringing both sides together for a sustainable way forward.
last month - two weeks ago, actually - in strasbourg, i met with a number of you who are members of the european parliament representing the outermost regions and i wanted to come along with me and the commissioner for climate change, mr karmenu vella, because i know that a number of you have specific problems with fisheries policies, maritime policies and so on.
we want european funds to be used in the best possible way to have a positive impact on these economies, in particular in terms of fighting unemployment and, of course, the use of energy resources.
member states need to support sustainable projects and work to come up with tangible and innovative ideas and projects to improve connectivity to tackle the insularity challenge.
one could look at insularity as a resource and a characteristic that could attract to islands new economic sector case in point sustainable and high-quality tourism.
member states need to heavily invest in a sustainable manner in islands and the commission has to identify innovative instruments to improve connectivity and tackle insularity and at the same time seek ways and means how to further implement the treaty to make more eu funding available for islands.
the country has turned to a smuggling hub for refugees, a springboard for smugglers and a flourishing environment for terrorist organisation and growing threat of daesh.
eu islands are many times particularly vulnerable to the challenges which europe is currently facing, such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and, especially for the southern areas, exposure to increasing migration flows.
the resolution calls attention to, among others, sustainable development on the islands, accessibility of regions, migration, climate change, and access to markets.
the motion for a resolution, which i voted in favour of, is addressed to the commission and asks questions as to how the ec is going to support regional and local authorities in order to strengthen their role and impact in managing esi funds, with the aim of creating economic growth and sustainable jobs.
on both counts, we need to look carefully at improving its implementation and monitoring in order to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
malta should not waste time in ratifying this convention.
the eu member states need a common framework on labour mobility, one that would, among others, abolish any discrimination, provide adequate social services for mobile workers and generally ensure sustainable employment.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it represents parliament’s commitment to building upon the recent economic recovery in the european union and also implementing a long-term strategy for sustainable growth.
these negotiations must seek to safeguard human rights, labour standards and environmental protection.
the negotiations should be based on the principle of sustainability.
‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution, which calls for strong trade and sustainable development chapters in any newly launched trade negotiations with australia and new zealand.
i believe that that this should be accompanied by formal education in order to teach young people about the impact the choice of food has on our bodies and general well-being and the impact of its cultivation on the environment.
‒ i welcome the measures outlined in the commission proposal as well as this report, which aim to make our maritime ports more modern, efficient and environmentally sustainable and to interconnect them in line with the ten-t objectives.
my second point is this: mr durand of the greens got terribly excited – i was a bit afraid he might do himself some harm – but he was angry because we were lowering social standards and lowering environmental standards.
i have challenged his group time and again to give me three examples of where this commission has come up with proposals that led to lower social or environmental standards.
it is also, in a rational way – a socially, environmentally and economically sustainable way – about removing too much red tape because there are 28 different regulations, and trying to find a common european solution.
there is no change in substance and the aim still remains to reduce the emissions of sulphur dioxide and their damaging impact on human health and the environment.
‒ it is our responsibility to regulate against emissions due to the combustion of marine fuels with a high sulphur content.
this is realised in air and contributes to air pollution in the form of sulphur dioxide and particulate matter, which harms our health and the environment, and contributes to acid deposition.
air pollution caused by ships at berth is a major concern for many harbour cities when it comes to their efforts to meet the union’s air quality limit values.
passenger ships operate mostly in ports or close to coastal areas and their impacts on human health and the environment are significant.
it is worth noting that in accordance with existing guidelines on state aid for environmental protection, and without prejudice to future changes thereto, member states may provide state aid in favour of operators affected by this directive, including aid for retrofitting operations of existing vessels, if such aid measures are deemed to be compatible with the internal market obligations.
‒ i supported this resolution as it concerns the codification texts regarding pollution and emissions from shipping-related activities in the form of sulphur dioxide, which harms health and the environment.
‒ i support this agreement because, since the treaty of lisbon has created a new legislative environment, there is a need to consolidate current best practices between the european parliament, the council of the european union, and the commission, and bring this agreement up to date.
since the agreement was concluded, there have been significant changes to the market environment (the rise of illicit unbranded products – ‘cheap whites’ – which cannot be dealt with by this agreement) and the regulatory environment, with the tobacco products directive and the who framework convention on tobacco control protocol.
changes in the market and regulatory environment mean that the agreement is no longer the best tool to fight bootlegging or smuggling of tobacco products.
‒ this is a very good report that includes excellent amendments to directive 2001/82/ec, for example in relation to access to medicinal products, innovation and environmental protection.
there is also a growing need for new and better medicines for use in livestock farming, in view of climate change and the worldwide trend towards greater movement.
‒ i chose to support this resolution as it builds upon the work done by the commission to separate the veterinary medicinal market from the human medicinal market as well reducing the red tape, maintaining the principles of public health and protecting the environment.
we want a sustainable long-term vision.
greenland is one of these partners within the framework towards developing a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in line with relevant conservation and management measures and within the limits of the available surplus.
‒ i supported this agreement as it leads to more sustainable and realistic fishing practices and gives european fisheries access to greenland’s waters, whilst also developing and increasing local employment opportunities in greenland.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that international cooperation is needed in order to protect biodiversity in international waters.
i welcome the decision to set up international conservation management systems which will help us preserve marine biodiversity.
‒ the european fisheries policy is geared towards sustainability and maintenance of healthy marine habitats and sustainable fish stocks.
this is essential for the long-term sustainability of fisheries.
i support proportionality towards specific circumstances within member states to take steps to implement management plans, monitor the application of the rules, deepen their knowledge base and strengthen research networks and the coordination of information on marine biodiversity.
‒ i gave my support to this report on the sustainability and conservation of marine biodiversity.
the potential for growth and jobs is enormous and should be used within the ecological limits of the marine environment.
responsible fisheries and aquaculture are key to sustainable development and a healthy marine eco-system.
clearer and more specific rules will help us in conserving rare breeds and protecting biodiversity.
our legislation on the breeding of animals has also contributed to the preservation of animal genetic resources, the protection of genetic biodiversity, the union’s cultural heritage and the production of typical-quality regional products that rely on the specific hereditary characteristics of local breeds of domestic animals.
nevertheless, there are some paragraphs implying that ‘better regulation’ and reducing gold-plating should be used as an excuse to limit as much as possible eu regulatory powers, and to get rid of the existing solid eu rules on social, workers’, consumer and environmental standards.
coastal fishing is a major part of our fleet; it creates employment and is environmentally sustainable.
one of the proposals mentioned in the report is the greater support for innovative projects which aim to create sustainable jobs, promote entrepreneurship and introduction of new technologies to facilitate the development of coastal regions.
this entails long-term support for sustainable growth for all marine and maritime sectors, acknowledging the importance of seas and oceans as the powerhouses which generate employment and create employment in the coastal regions.
it guarantees a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
it is therefore important that we increase cooperation with our partners in areas such as promotion of sustainable fisheries, transparency and competition.
i particularly welcome the social dimension of this report, namely that it seeks to improve the protection of workers in this industry and promote better, safer working conditions and in general to create more sustainable employment, for example through the hiring of local crews in the context of sustainable fisheries partnership agreements.
‒ i decided to support this report on the common fisheries policy as it provides clearer common rules on the european union fisheries policy, but also contributes to a more sustainable use of the dwindling maritime resources.
‒ i fully support the report on the external dimension of the cfp, including a fisheries agreement that promotes an excellent strategy for realising the eu objective of promoting sustainable fisheries at a global level by using the eu’s influence on the international stage to improve fisheries management and transparency standards.
‒ with constant growing concern on health and the increased connection between the former and the environment, i value the provision aimed to ensure that active substances or products placed on the market do not adversely affect human or animal health or the environment.
i welcome the possibility for member states to apply the precautionary principle where there is scientific uncertainty as to risks with regard to human or animal health or the environment posed by the plant products to be authorised in their territory, particularly but not only on substances which are potentially carcinogenic to humans.
sustainable development goals, in particular those of promoting good governance, human rights, democracy and justice, combating poverty, reducing inequalities and social exclusion, help in tackling unemployment and barriers to sustainable and inclusive social and economic growth.
the region has a strategic importance in terms of diversification of energy supplies, security and counter-terrorism.
and i think that the fight against poverty should be addressed with an integrated strategy that focuses on a holistic plan that integrates together education, energy, transport, the labour market and social policy.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it affirms that this budget will be a continuation and intensification of the institution’s policy of carrying out efficiency gains in all areas where these are possible without compromising the quality of the work environment of the members and staff.
in parallel, i believe that cooperation with turkey in different areas such as energy security – and especially the refugee crisis – is needed, and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
‒ i support the call for protection of religious freedom and the rule of law as these are fundamental values of the european union, and emphasise the need for constructive and sustainable political dialogue between political forces on eu-related reforms.
this is essential to making further progress in the eu accession process; whereby fair play, constructive dialogue, cooperation and willingness to compromise between government and opposition is vital for a successful and sustainable reform process.
‒ i supported this report as it highlights the need to close the gap between the union’s social policy and its energy policy, helping citizens across the eu to rise out of poverty while also contributing to achieving our european union energy targets.
minimum income schemes above the 60% national median income in all member states, a european energy observatory and a winter heating disconnection moratorium are essential tools in this respect.
financially vulnerable households need better protection against energy poverty and more support to improve their energy efficiency.
we need to strengthen the role of the private sector in implementing the future sustainable development goals, based on the aid effectiveness principle supported through eu added value towards achieving these same goals.
furthermore, in the context of aid resources declining and new global challenges, such as climate change, the private sector might play a key role since these donors can bring innovation, expertise and effectiveness in development policy.
of course, these are important agencies that focus on vocational training, that focus on training systems for countries that are underdeveloped; agencies talking about the important research and analysis work they do and also how to prevent risk, and promote a sustainable and healthy workplace.
‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims to update interoperability rules in response to the new needs arising from the opening of the market and the expected growth of rail as a mode of transport, notably by clarifying existing rules on the use of tsi (technical specifications for interoperability), simplifying the long and costly authorisation procedures for rolling stock, energy and infrastructures, and ensuring vehicle interoperability in the eu through a european vehicle authorisation, to be granted by the european railways agency (era), and the creation of a european register.
whatever the outcome it is necessary that we ensure full transparency on the financing of infrastructural projects, including publication of ex ante and ex post assessments of the economic, environmental and social sustainability of projects in the interest of taxpayers.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because a discharge should be granted to the agency for cooperation of energy regulators as all its transactions in the year 2014 were legal and regular.
‒ i note the recommendation of the report to grant the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2014 and i support this recommendation.
‒ i voted in favour of granting this discharge since the agency for cooperation of energy regulators is achieving good results in its area of work and has vital importance on helping to deliver the goals and results of eu energy regulatory policies.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014
in writing.
‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the agency for cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the european environment agency for the year 2014 as all its transactions were legal and the allocated funds were well spent.
‒ i took note of the recommendation to grant the executive director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency’s budget for the financial year 2014 and i support it on the basis that the court of auditors deemed that the transactions underlying the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2014 were legal and regular in all material respects.
i believe that the european environment agency is doing extremely good work when it comes to the protection of the environment in the eu as a whole and also in controlling the environment levels in the different member states.
‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i am in agreement with observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014
in writing.
this will increase the reach of union regulatory frameworks and safety and environmental standards.
it is positive to note the contribution made of maritime safety towards prevention of ship pollution in europe.
‒ the clean sky joint undertaking deals specifically with developing breakthrough technologies to significantly increase the environmental performances of airplanes and air transport.
‒ the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking deals specifically with fuel cell and hydrogen energy technologies in europe.
‒ following the recommendation from the council, the declaration of assurance from the court of auditors and the report from the committee of budgetary control, i chose to support the decision regarding the postponement of the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge on iter; i support the rapporteur’s proposal to postpone the discharge for the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy until september.
moreover, the report prioritises investments to accelerate recovery and enhance productivity, promotes youth employment, innovation and smes, and enhances environmental sustainability and climate action.
‒ i voted in favour of the report and thereby gave my consent for the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries agreement between the european union and liberia.
it is important that the overall objectives of such agreements includes sustainable exploitation and not merely exploitation.
‒ i supported this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement.
‒ i have voted in favour of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between eu and liberia, which is the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfpa) between the eu and liberia.
the agreement and protocol are in line with the reformed cfp and ensure that the fishing activities of eu vessels in liberian waters are carried out in respect of the principles of sustainability, good governance, transparency, non-discrimination and respect of human rights.
‒ i have voted in favour of the agreement and protocol as it is in line with the reformed cfp and ensures that the fishing activities of eu vessels in mauritanian waters are carried out in respect of the principles of sustainability, good governance, transparency, non-discrimination and respect of human rights.
these are both of great importance as territorial cohesion is one of the objectives of the european union and it aims to increase competitiveness and contribute to sustainable development.
i attribute importance to year-round sustainable tourism, which can create jobs and diversified content in those areas while helping tackle the problem of depopulation and the lack of generational renewal in those regions.
‒ i voted in favour of the report that emphasises how the mountainous regions of the eu can contribute to its targets, such as europe 2020. the natural resources and assets of these areas can provide jobs to improve employment within the eu, especially green jobs which contribute to the fight against climate change.
the rich variety of renewable energy sources could contribute to the eu renewable energy targets.
mountainous regions can also be a leading force in sustainable growth within the eu, as centres of green growth.
the eu is the world’s largest provider of development and humanitarian assistance, and with the adoption of agenda 2030 last september in new york we all committed to the implementation of the new sustainable development goals.
as the situation in europe has deteriorated dramatically, i think that the new sustainable development goals should take a step further and adopt strong objectives to reflect the enormity of the crisis, while addressing the root causes of migration in the countries of origin.
we want to make sure that the funds achieve their purpose: to build sustainable economies, health services and educational facilities, create jobs and give a future to people in their own countries.
we need to ensure that the new approach to migration is a top priority in the agenda 2030 and sustainable development goals.
we will come forward in june with proposals on how to work better with third countries as part of our work towards a more sustainable approach to managing migration.
it does not deliver effective solutions and it does not ensure solidarity and a sustainable sharing of responsibility.
first, our proposal will allow establishing a sustainable and fair system for determining the member state responsible for asylum seekers.
as president juncker said in this plenary in april, we want to build a common european asylum system that is the best in the world – and i have full confidence that this house will help us to build a fairer, more equitable and more sustainable system that europe needs and will need in the future.
the commission’s idea for a corrective fairness mechanism is a good step in the right direction in addressing this concern and will go some way to pushing forward a sustainable solution to disproportionate pressures faced at the external borders.
for the return to robust and sustainable growth, we have proposed action on two fronts: firstly, investment in europe’s sources of jobs and growth, and secondly, the completion of the european economic and monetary union to create the conditions for lasting recovery.
this will accrue in parallel with an upgrade in the investment climate, thanks to the digital single market, the single market strategy, the energy union and the capital market union.
we are also still confronted with the aftermath of the crisis and the great divergence in employment and social outcomes between euro zone countries and a divergence which is a threat to its long—term sustainability.
the forthcoming skills agenda will focus on skills as an innovator to employability, as well as creating the right environment to allow skills to drive competitiveness and fair and balanced growth.
i believe that upward social convergence is important for a sustainable model social europe, and this needs to be reflected in our policies in order to address the current challenges which persist in many member states.
the commission needs to listen to the concerns of eu industry, trade unions and stakeholders, about the possible consequences for jobs, the environment and economic growth in the eu.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i am concerned that the foreign affairs council has still not adopted any common eu position ahead of the high-level political forum on sustainable development meeting in july.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for more coherence between the eu’s policies and closer cooperation between the different partners when it comes to reaching the sustainable development goals.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the state of play of the agenda 2030 and sustainable development goals because the development policy is a key in achieving a more inclusive and peaceful world by uniting global efforts to improve people’s lives worldwide and eradicate poverty.
i very much welcome the support for the democratisation of energy generation, and i agree with you that we still need to do well and ought to make sure that the third package in all our member states is properly implemented.
i think there was an overall agreement that the best recipe to tackle energy poverty is to focus on energy efficiency, and today’s technologies are already offering us to do a lot to use the smart solutions, to smarten our grids, our households and to use the proper information to customise the services and empower our consumers.
i would like once again to thank the rapporteur for a very timely report because we are now working hard to deliver on the remaining proposals which he promised we would deliver these year – the year of delivery for the energy union.
in september, we would like to present the package on energy efficiency.
we want to include also proposals on how to make our buildings more energy efficient, and many of the proposals which we heard today will be reflected in our proposals for the new electricity market design and for the revised renewables directive which would follow later – hopefully before the end of the year.
we need the investment so we can start this wave of energy efficiency across europe.
in this financial period, we will spend eur 5.4 billion for energy efficiency investment in housing, which is a threefold increase in comparison with the previous period.
another element which was echoed in the speeches of several honourable members was that we need to offer more assistance and help to local authorities, to mayors, and to provide them with better technical assistance to help them to develop the necessary capacity, so they can tackle these very complex issues of smartening cities or increasing energy efficiency in their electoral district.
and i am very happy to say that we feel we have very strong grassroots support from local authorities, from mayors, for this energy transition, for tackling energy poverty and for transforming their cities into the smart cities of the future.
to conclude, i really would like to thank you for all the ideas, for the support for our work, and i believe that together we can really empower consumers in the energy market, and i think that through this it can make a real contribution in the fight against energy poverty.
– when we talk about the energy union and the development of competitive energy markets in europe, we must make sure that consumers are at the centre of this strategy.
innovative solutions to shift to a smart, efficient and sustainable energy system using modern technologies can unlock significant energy and budgetary savings for companies and citizens.
too often energy-poor consumers are living in inefficient accommodation and paying too much for energy.
instead, these vulnerable consumers should receive adequate safeguards, including preventing the disconnection of electricity and gas at critical times, and assistance to implement energy efficiency measures in their homes that can serve as long-term solution helping them to avoid energy poverty and in many cases improve their health and quality of life.
energy is essential and access to energy services is a basic social right.
the energy union and the eu’s framework of energy legislation must keep this in its focus.
we need to start working towards a fairer single market that is politically supported, economically viable and socially accepted by european citizens, a market that stimulates sustainable economic growth and job creation, but also considers citizens’ hopes, fears and expectations.
therefore, i urge meps to support the report, and in particular the measures aimed at endorsing a highly-competitive social market economy, providing consumers with the highest level of protection, promoting innovative start-ups, smes and social economy enterprises, opposing abuses in the single market, which are trying to circumvent existing rules and lower worker and consumer and environmental standards, highlighting the economic, social and environmental benefits and challenges of the sharing economy, calling for a single european system for the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products, and supporting the ‘made in’ labelling, which is of crucial importance to protect consumers and provide them with the information they need.
‒ i welcome the commission’s communication on the ‘new deal for energy consumers’ and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
the report outlines some very good proposals to increase the competitiveness of the energy market, which i hope will soon be realised, and these seem to create many benefits for the consumers.
i am particularly satisfied with the measures which are to help bring energy poverty to an end.
‒ i agree with the scope of the report to build a more decentralised, flexible and renewable-based energy system for eu countries.
i agree that by empowering citizens to take ownership of the energy transition, produce their own renewable energy and become energy efficient it will be beneficial to both our consumers and tackle the problem of energy poverty.
a transparent and consumer-friendly retail energy market has not yet been fully realised in all eu member states, as evidenced by persistent high levels of market concentration.
we should recognise that energy is a common good at the service of the community in order to facilitate the energy transition and deliver its maximum value.
for this reason, i agree with the report in that it recommends developing guidelines for price-comparison tools to ensure that consumers can access independent, up-to-date and understandable comparison tools for greater control over their consumption and efficient energy use.
‒ the role of consumers in the energy market is fundamental in order to ensure an inclusive and fair energy system.
we need to have an energy union which truly safeguards consumer interests of both present and future generations.
i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the rapporteur that more needs to be done in order to empower our citizens in the energy market.
we need to protect consumers from unfair practices from suppliers and also make available the tools they need to be empowered, which are highlighted in the report, such tools consist of treating them fairly when they produce their own energy in terms of taxes and charges.
i strongly agree with the need to address the causes of energy poverty and with the principle that access to affordable energy is a basic social right.
‒ i supported this report as it highlights the need to move towards a more consumer-oriented and fair energy market, beneficial to all citizens.
‒ the energy union should have citizens at its core and contribute to eradicating energy policy and protecting consumers from uncompetitive and unfair practices from suppliers.
therefore, i voted in favour of the report on delivering a new deal for energy consumers, that proposes measures to allow consumers to save money on energy bills by asking suppliers to work with energy regulators, and for price comparison tools to be able to proactively notify consumers of how much they can save by switching supplier.
we need to ensure equal treatment and social inclusion which needs to be accompanied with the creation of sustainable jobs.
the single market strategy report is a step in the right direction in achieving a new holistic vision on the single market based on a green knowledge-based social market economy that will improve the well—being of european citizens by proposing practical measures needed to guarantee equal treatment and social inclusion, creation of sustainable jobs and growth and high level of consumer protection.
international regulatory cooperation could help promote a transparent, effective, pro-competitive economic environment, as well as developing and securing the highest levels of protection of health and safety.
‒ i supported this proposal as it will lead to a more transparent economic environment, the highest possible level of protection of health and safety, while contributing to a reduction of costs and duplication of administrative procedures.
international regulatory cooperation could help promote a transparent, effective, pro-competitive economic environment, as well as developing and securing the highest levels of protection of health and safety.
but unless we have an inclusive approach to tackle the root causes of migration that are closely linked to development in order to achieve a sustainable settlement of the current migration crisis, the situation will hardly improve.
‒ this report deals with the sustainable development goals in developing states and the donor-recipient paradigm.
this report proposes measures by which the eu should take the lead in promoting a universal pcd agenda that moves the concept forward towards sustainable development.
‒ i give my support to this report, as it both analyses the current situation with regards to policy coherence and seeks to stimulate the debate about the future of policy coherence for sustainable development at the eu level.
they have demonstrated their ability to increase food production sustainably (often through agro-ecological practices), to diversify production, to contribute to rural development, to increase incomes and, in turn, to help reduce poverty.
while the general objective of the nafsn is sound, certain deficiencies remain which are underlined in the report: the need to shift to sustainable modes of agricultural production and to support farmers' seed systems, the dangers associated with the emergence of a market for land rights, the regulation of contract farming; and they are weak on nutrition as well as on the recognition of women's rights and gender empowerment.
‒ i voted in favour of this report since it promoted accounting standards that ensure financial stability and sustainable growth.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which promotes accounting standards that ensure financial stability and sustainable growth, and a deep reform of the process of elaboration and endorsement of accounting standards to ensure transparency and accountability, which is essential.
the increasingly complex security environment, un and au missions are in need of a comprehensive approach and requires exchanges of intelligence and information and modern technologies which will help our counter—terrorism and to fight crime in conflict and post-conflict areas.
support for the creation of good governance structures, the respect for rule of law and human rights, education, food security, the prevention and fight against radicalisation and climate change should be kept a high priority when responding to the current situation in sub-saharan africa.
i believe that support for the creation of good governance structures, respect for the rule of law and human rights, the prevention and fight against radicalisation, attention to matters pertaining to education, climate and food security should be kept as a high priority when responding to the current situation in sub-saharan africa.
such aspects contribute to the socio-economic development of the country, as well as to sustainable development.
under the pressure of a growing population, deteriorating environment conditions and numerous other problems that the agricultural sector is constantly facing, new solutions are needed in order to help the farmers deal with these.
the rapporteur also rightly pointed out that a common approach is needed in order to come up with sustainable solutions to challenges that concern every single one of us.
‒ new technological solutions could make agriculture more sustainable while responding to the rise of global population, food security issues, increased demand for high protein products and healthier food.
i believe that solutions such as combating food waste are a more sustainable solution.
‒ i supported this report, which provides new technological solutions for more sustainable forms of agricultural production.
we have to tackle food waste first.
innovation and research should accompany the future of agriculture but with the aim of safe and healthy food, improving the environment by not only protecting it but also and diminishing our consumption of chemical products such as fertilisers and pesticides.
the report underlines the close relationship between economic development and sustainable agriculture and the potential of high technology accomplishing the two goals.
‒ creating the right tools and the right framework will help us reach a more sustainable agriculture and farm management.
i agree that better management of natural resources is key to sustainable agriculture.
i agree with the report where it stresses the need to tackle food waste, since each year 100 million tonnes of food in europe goes to waste.
food waste is to be fought at all levels of the food chain from production, processing and retailers to consumers.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report since i believe that sustainability of the environment and agriculture production is necessary in order to ensure a sustainable economic development of our primary production, and a transition to a bio-economy is required in order to attain sustainable development and be able to implement the cop21 agreement effectively.
i hope you will agree with me that the status quo on the blue card was not sustainable.
we welcome the establishment of the new and comprehensive craft agenda as it will establish a versatile tool that will be flexible to adapt and succeed in a fast-changing work environment and to achieve a higher level of coherence between member states in terms of policy and achievements.
there will be a dedicated specific trade sustainability impact assessment for the bilateral fta that will incorporate many issues, including this one, but also human rights dimensions, as well as impact assessment and sustainability impact assessments.
moreover, tonga has a large wind energy production capacity and 90% of the 11th set of edf appropriations for 2014-2020, amounting to eur 11 million, which are earmarked for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i welcome the fact that it states clearly who is to be responsible for any damage done to the environment while the hazardous and noxious substances (nhs) are being transported.
the ‘polluter pays’ principle and the principles of prevention and precaution to the effect that preventive action should be taken in case of possible environmental damage needs to be taken into account and falls squarely within the union policy and general principles regarding the environment.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report because, as today, there is nothing under the environmental liability directive to provide for compensation of victims in excess of the limits of the ship owner’s liability.
i believe it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a homogenous liability regime applicable to environmental damage arising from the carriage of hns at sea, which can only be achieved if parliament’s recommendations are duly considered by the council and the commission.
i believe that report should not be seen as an impediment to the establishment of a uniform liability regime, but as an effort to ensure that this is done in the most effective and fair fashion, without impairing the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of common rules of eu law and without creating excessive disparity for the victims of pollution (e.g.
this report establishes a uniform regime for judicial procedure and compensation for cases relating to parties liable for damage from pollution.
other aspects of mutual interest are the promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and the implementation of effective policies to tackle climate change.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which supports this measure as a way to help tunisia further consolidate its democracy, bring about an environment more conducive to investment and urgently address unemployment.
‒ i reckon that security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, both within and outside the union, characterised by terrorist attacks and mass murder which affects all member states and to which member states must respond by adopting a joint strategy and a coordinated response.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report because the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, both within and outside the union, characterised by terrorist attacks, hybrid war and mass murder which affects all member states and to which member states must respond by adopting a joint strategy and a coordinated response at all levels, including by developing the space capabilities.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in order to express my concern over the deteriorating situation in venezuela, due to the increasing climate of political and social instability.
‒ i have voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that herbicide resistant gmos should not be authorised since they could encourage the increase use of herbicides, and the wider health and environmental implications of this has not been taken into account.
the reason is that previous authorisation fails to consider the potential negative long-term impact on the environment and public health.
‒ i choose to support this objection as it is essential that the council does not overstep its powers by introducing legislation that goals concerning environmental and public health protections laid out by previous directives.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision does not fulfil the objective of health and environment protection set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in this directive.
creating a market for sulfonylurea resistant plants will encourage the worldwide use of this antidiabetic medicine as a herbicide, with possible detrimental effects on biodiversity and chemical contamination of drinking water.
teachers work in an environment that reflects the diversity of today's society with its challenges.
in the strategy, the european union shall push forward the member states to: 1. to provide quality continuing training for teachers, 2. create structures that give the necessary support to teachers and trust them to appropriately address the diversity of skills and abilities that their students present to them, 3. eliminate administrative red tape so that teachers can focus their energy on teaching, 4. provide teachers with the means and educational material to effectively facilitate learning, 5. and recognise that a teacher is working overtime in the classroom.
the country faces a fragile security environment, being at the forefront of the syrian civil war, with over a million refugees out of four million of a total of the population.
the country faces a fragile security environment, being at the forefront of the syrian civil war, with over a million refugees out of four million of a total of the population.
i therefore encourage holding international negotiations for the purpose of protecting the european environment, our market and citizens.
‒ i supported this report as it strikes a positive balance between the realities of environmental and ecosystem conservation and the needs of the eu fishing industry and smes.
the stock of the three species dominates local fishery and the geographic feature of baltic sea to be a rather closed environment makes the three species interact frequently.
this tailored plan is expected to be more effective in securing sustainable exploitation because it incorporates all related species in a single set of rules.
this plan aims to ensure a sustainable exploitation of the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea taking into account the most up to date scientific information.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because of its utilisation of a multispecies management plan to ensure sustainable fishing and support for both conservation of several baltic fish species and for the economic livelihood of those in the fishing industry.
the plan should provide for a balanced, sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities – and thereby of the livelihoods of fishers.
at the same time it should guarantee that the management would be based on the most up-to-date scientific advice regarding the status of stocks covered, interactions between species and other aspects related to ecosystem and fisheries.
the resolution calls for all parties to the conflict to put an immediate end to the violence, lay down their arms, release all children from their ranks and promote dialogue towards a peaceful and sustainable resolution of the conflict.
‒ i voted in favour of the report in order to show my support for the eu’s energy efficiency target through the development of renewable energy.
i especially welcome combing the eu objective for renewable energy with national targets.
we have the obligation to combat climate change and i am glad to see all member states have made efforts in this fight.
the eu is on the path to shift from traditional energy resources to renewable energy and, in order to be successful, we need a more consistent framework at eu level.
‒ the use of renewable energy in the member states is an essential element in working towards a cleaner environment which is sustainable and which takes into account the health of our citizens.
the progress made under the europe 2020 strategy in meeting the 20% renewable energy target represents a step in the right direction.
however, in order to have sustainable use of energy we must ensure more ambitious targets, leaving room for manoeuvre for small member states like malta, which may have certain specificities.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it is the responsibility of the eu to combat climate change through the utilisation of, and support for, renewable energy.
by introducing proper and efficient regulation of the renewable energy market, we are moving forward towards the proposed clean energy model for 2050.
in writing.
‒ this report looks at progress towards meeting the eu’s 2020 20% renewable energy target, and also looks forward to the post-2020 framework.
i agree with the main objective of the report and that we need to adopt a new approach towards renewable energy at european level.
climate change is a fact and we have the responsibility to combat it, and to solve the social and environmental problems it creates, before it is too late.
we need to reduce our dependence on energy resources, and shift towards a sustainable energy production model, if we wish to avoid serious social and environmental consequences.
in my view this would put unnecessary pressure on both energy producers and consumers without likely achieving our aim at the end.
‒ the report outlines how the 2012 energy efficiency directive, which sets rules and obligations to help the eu reach its 2020 energy efficiency target, is being implemented by the member states.
the commission should revise the text and prioritise and address energy poverty.
‒ i voted in favour of this implementation report, which looks at how the energy efficiency directive (agreed in 2012) is being implemented by the member states, and the progress to reaching the 2020 20% energy efficiency target, as well as looking forward to the 2030 framework and target.
every 30 seconds, another person is ripped away from their families, their friends and their lives and forced into a trade that generates over usd 32 billion a year – a figure which the united nations estimates could entirely eradicate the global hiv epidemic by 2030. but, while this modern-day slavery is rooted in injustice, inequality and exploitation, the environment within which it resides is fluid, ever changing and adapting to survive.
and, while those who exploit vulnerable persons, 50% of them children, take advantage of the world’s changing environment, we are simply unprepared.
as the shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on this report, i am highly concerned that international human rights standards are limited in their applicability to situations of climate-induced displacement and that, because of this, persons who are forced to leave their homes and lives due to climate-induced change are becoming increasingly at risk.
‒ i voted in favour of the report, which proposes to regulate emission limits for a list of engines of non-road mobile machinery, as i believe this is beneficial to our environment and public health.
as one of the component sectors contributing to noxious emissions, the non-road mobile machinery sector costs the eu a large proportion of the budget for tackling air pollution.
we can thus keep a balance between environmental protection and industrial competitiveness.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as a new legislative framework is needed to address emissions and achieve the union’s air quality objectives.
this proposal aims to regulate harmful emissions from engines installed in non-road mobile machinery such as inland waterways and construction machinery.
non-road mobile machinery engines are a significant contributor to air pollution and thus need to be addressed effectively.
‒ i supported this resolution as it provides a balance between necessary measures to protect the environment and fair regulation of the single market.
it is essential that our environment is protected for the next generation, and this resolution is another step in the proper direction, while not placing an undue burden on producers.
‒ non-road mobile machinery engines contribute significantly to air pollution and are accountable for roughly 15% of the nitrogen oxide (nox) and 5% of the particulate matter (pm) emissions in the eu while their share of total nox emissions in the eu 15 is predicted to grow to 19% in 2020. at the same time, whilst emissions standards for road vehicles have become more stringent, equivalent measures for nrmm have lagged behind.
that is why a new legislative framework addressing these sectors is key in order to achieve the union’s air-quality objectives to better protect human health and environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the report that stresses how trade and foreign investment can have a positive impact on economic growth, human rights and environmental protection and can be used to influence these crucial issues.
after analysing the implementation of the 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility in trade policy, the rapporteur brought up aspects that need further progress.
i believe that better trade policies are for the benefit of sustainable development and social stability.
‒ by linking trade, human rights and social and environmental standards the eu sends a clear message embracing social corporate responsibility that reflects a holistic approach that understands the role of businesses within the community.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it outlines valid factors which are important in the implementation of social and environmental standards and human rights, and for ensuring corporate responsibility.
we need greater coherence with respect to development, to really and truly have a sustainable environment.
trade and human rights reinforce one another and our strategy may also have an important role to play in offering positive incentives in terms of promoting human rights, democracy, environmental standards and corporate responsibility.
‒ i chose to support this report in recognition of the importance of human rights oriented approaches to economic and environmental practices and policy.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report on social, environmental and human rights standards in trade agreements because these issues become of a major concern to our citizens.
the protocol contains a framework which will facilitate the participation of azerbaijan in certain eu programmes which are bound to be of great advantage to both parties, especially in the areas of culture, education and environment.
azerbaijan is also an important energy partner for the eu.
we need to further widen the budget made available for 2016, to use income in a sustainable and positive manner.
to avoid suffering losses from cyber-attacks, it is of great importance to ensure a safer digital environment within the eu.
‒ i strongly support this agreement as it aims to improve cyber-security capabilities and improves also cooperation in the area of cyber-security and online environment.
‒ the report on the high common level of security of network and information systems across the union represents the first eu-wide legislation on cybersecurity and its main objective is to improve the security in the eu online environment with benefits for citizens, consumers and businesses.
‒ i voted in favour of the report that proposes to update the energy efficiency labelling system in line with the constantly changing technologies.
the system grades electric devices on how they consume power frugally, aiming to encourage both consumers and producers to take energy efficiency and environmental protection into greater consideration.
i believe that a transparent and regulated energy efficiency labelling system can continue to green up our homes and cut the greenhouse emissions.
‒ i agree that energy efficiency is a crucial element of the european union’s 2030 climate and energy policy framework and is key to moderate energy demand and to limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
we need to highlight more informed choices for significant contribution to energy savings, while at the same time promoting innovation and investments into the production of more energy-efficient products which take into account the rapid technological progress for energy efficiency in products achieved over recent years.
this will improve the efficiency of energy-related products through informed consumer choice and enhanced societal awareness which benefits the union economy overall.
‒ customers need to be at the core of our energy efficiency policies and this is a legislative initiative which empowers customers further in taking the right decisions.
this legislation calls for a clear a-to-g scale for labelling energy efficiency in household appliances.
following the car emissions scandal, this legislation aims to help restore trust with concrete proposals.
since its inception the ‘energy efficient’ label provided citizens with a deeper understanding of the environmental impact of the products they buy and we need to enhance this further by providing customers with the right tools to make the right decisions.
in the wake of the many car emissions cases that have taken place over the last several months, it has becoming increasingly important for consumers to have accurate information on the environmental impacts of products in order to restore the trust of the consumer in regulations and safety in the market.
‒ the european maritime safety agency aims at reducing the risk of maritime accidents, marine pollution from ships and the loss of human lives at sea by helping to enforce the pertinent eu legislation.
i believe that not only can this agency work towards ensuring less lives are lost in our seas, but it can also contribute towards mitigating the effects of pollution, environmental hazards on our seas and contribute to better water quality.
‒ i have voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at reducing the risk of maritime accidents, marine pollution from ships and the loss of human lives at sea by helping to enforce the pertinent eu legislation.
i believe that not only can this agency work towards ensuring less lives are lost in our seas, but it can also contribute towards mitigating the effects of pollution, environmental hazards on our seas and contribute to better water quality.
‒ the european union is facing a number of global and common challenges, and we need to address these challenges in an effective manner to ensure a union which offers the best environment for our citizens.
improving the working and living conditions of european citizens is important; we need to ensure sustainable employment and reduce poverty by also offering free access to education and training.
with regard to climate change, this proposal reminds us that efforts must be stepped up to achieve the energy union.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion due to the wide array of benefits it brings to citizens and the single market in the areas of working and living conditions, economic recovery, climate change and environmental security, refugee influx, and security concerns to name a few.
it would be better for the environment if japan committed to the protection of marine mammals, especially whales with rather conservative populations.
the primary objective should remain the protection of biodiversity, including the conservation of species in order not to allow the resumption of commercial whaling in respect of any stock of whales in eu waters.
i am in support of this motion, as said resolution approaches the topic in a diplomatic way while recognising the eu’s commitment to ensuring the security of biodiversity and combating the harmful whaling trade.
‒ i have voted in favour of the resolution because it is essential that japan halts its whaling programme, which threatens animal welfare and biodiversity.
since culture is the narrative of our lifestyle, the way we live, what we do every single day, let's make sure that all persons, even those whom the environment disables, have space to participate.
this recommendation also takes into account development and climate change, which are crucially important in reaching the union’s objectives.
claims that caffeine increases focus and concentration, among other things, for products containing high levels of caffeine like energy drinks should not be allowed.
it is not only about market design, it covers energy efficiency, the energy performance of buildings and a renewables directive.
in the context of decarbonising of our economies, there is no doubt that the heating and cooling sector is an absolute game changer when it comes to security, economic growth and reaching our climate and energy targets.
we have to dedicate lots of time to this sector, and it is very important that work in this sector – work on energy efficiency, making the best use of the epc (energy performance certificate) and the future epc that is also coming – will be one of the priorities of the commission.
next year we will come along with targets for co2 emissions: we will have, i am sure, a very fruitful discussion with this parliament, and i am sure, when i see the spirit and the concerns of the meps who have intervened, that there will be a high degree of consensus between the commission and parliament on developing a market that functions, a market which is fit for the targets we have in our climate policy, and a market which brings us affordable, secure and clean energy.
– heating and cooling consume half of the eu’s energy.
for this reason, and also due to its size, we need to discuss and address the sector’s competitiveness, decarbonisation and energy security.
their direct impact on our citizens and our households means that affordability and energy poverty are essential topics that need to be addressed, as do the geographical, economic and climate differences among our member states.
and the cause of this is pollution in our cities.
we have more than one company generating pollution - in some cases, ten times the legal limit.
‒ at a time of economic recession and resulting budget constraints, and in an increasingly competitive global environment, i believe that it is important that the european union keeps improving its capacity to innovate.
this strategy is fundamentally important to create a knowledge-based economy, sustainable growth and balances development and high quality jobs in all regions.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3), which aims to create knowledge-based, sustainable growth, balanced development and high quality jobs in all regions, not only in well-developed areas but also in regions in transition as well as in less developed, rural and island regions.
i believe that as the work of this committee progresses, more evidence is collected and the picture becomes more clear, these elements are crucial to have effective and reliable emissions measurements which is crucially important in safeguarding the health of our citizens.
‒ i have supported the request for defence of the privileges and immunities of rosario crocetta since his parliamentary record shows that he had always been very active in the fight against organised crime and its impact on the union and its member states and was focused on the influence of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, especially as regards public procurement in the field of environmental policy.
‒ i believe that there is a big potential to strengthen the internal market for energy and to allow electricity to move freely to also benefit cross-border competition and provide the right signals for investments.
improved integration and coordination of energy markets means that there are many opportunities to achieve the common european goal of a secure, affordable, environmentally-sound energy supply.
– as a union we endeavour to promote energy efficiency savings, the development of renewable energy and the interconnection of energy networks.
such are essential in defining the member states’ energy mix and the conditions governing the use of their energy resources which nonetheless remains a national competence.
i support the call for proactively involving the civil society stakeholders in designing a flexible and decentralised european internal market in electricity in order to enhance coordination between national transition strategies whereby fees and taxes are to be applied fairly, avoiding double costs for the charging and discharging of energy and resulting in a market which rewards fast-reacting and flexible sources.
this is why we need to move towards a new energy market design which adapts and takes into account the elements of a changing energy supply.
i am in favour of this report, as i believe that we need to move towards an energy market based on consumer needs whilst ensuring affordable energy.
it takes note of the changes in the energy market and how the union must react in order to make changes in line with recent developments such as the increased presence of renewables with market-driven remuneration.
the report also supports the need for a long-term strategy and policy in the field of energy to make the most of investments; therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report towards a new energy market design because we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
this is one of the priorities of the eu especially when it is consists of the eu’s biggest energy sector and i fully agree.
the strategy includes amongst others plans to boost the energy efficiency of buildings and the use of renewable energy.
‒ heating and cooling is the largest energy sector especially in homes around the european union.
we need to keep in mind that heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand – therefore it is highly important to reduce this demand and make the sector more efficient.
i voted in favour of this eu strategy which addresses energy poverty, reduces emissions and also brings down costs to consumers.
the report also consistently highlights the need to tackle co2 emissions and the importance of green technologies in the areas of heating and cooling, as they make up the major share of the union’s energy demand.
‒ heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand - which is why it is so important to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to reduce dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
we must put in place the right environment and create the right opportunities for our smes to thrive and invest in the future.
the aim is to pursue common objectives for the area as a whole that are in keeping with the sustainable development, environmental and energy objectives set under the europe 2020 strategy, and projects of a macro-regional scale are therefore required in order to meet those objectives.
‒ the eu strategy for the alpine region (eusalp) is fundamental as it improves the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion, accessibility and transport links for everyone in the alpine region and ensures sustainability in the alps.
most importantly, the fund will help address the root causes of irregular migration by stimulating investment and boosting sustainable growth, and through job creation in the african countries where most migrants come from.
– the report highlights the potential of social and economic benefits for africa by enabling young people with the education and skills to realise their potential and creating employment opportunities to foster stability, sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and development in the region.
i believe that this epa has the potential to bring fundamental positive change and contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepened intra-regional trade and integration.
the sadc epa agreement with botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia and swaziland is also orientated towards development, supporting economic diversification in these african states, promoting democracy and sustainable development, as well as strengthening regional integration in southern africa.
the ilo work in fishing convention (no 188), along with recommendation (no 199), covers essential matters to ensure decent working and living conditions on board vessels, specially since workers in the fisheries sector require special protection, considering, among other things, the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels in comparison with other sectors and the hazardous working environment and odd working hours.
– the eu can facilitate tunisia’s democratic process through the creation of an enabling environment with the necessary structures for civil society organisations to be included in the decision-making process.
‒ i voted in favour of the report, which calls for an agreement to be reached on rules for information for non-professional investors, because such information is critical in the current environment.
– madam president, ensuring the effective return of irregular migrants is a cornerstone of a successful and sustainable migration policy.
– it is important that the regulatory environment at union level ensures that companies have enough options to raise capital.
on both counts we need to look carefully at improving its implementation and monitoring in order to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
through better access to the labour market we can facilitate entrepreneurship and sustainable job creation in all sectors, including green employment, as well as the provision of social care.
we need to ensure an inclusive and integrated labour market which is able to address unemployment and induce sustainable employment.
furthermore, by simplifying rules on support for start-ups, micro enterprises and smes, and by improving the eu business environment, we can further assist the contribution made by smes to a capital markets union.
when they can thrive in the free market, they build sustainable jobs, growth and prosperity.
smes play an important role in strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion, while also contributing to smarter, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that smes are the backbone of the european economy, which is why i am in favour of fair competition, access to financing and an adequate regulatory environment.
hence it is important to focus on fair competition, access to financing, an adequate regulatory environment, 21st century working skills and a good social dialogue in order to allow for smes to create sustainable quality jobs.
employers need to create an anti-discriminatory working environment as without their active involvement in this process it will be very hard to achieve.
the report underscores amongst others that the egf cannot act as a substitute to a true industrial policy at eu level to bring sustainable and inclusive growth.
– i see scope for the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and the promotion of sustainable employment by preparing redundant workers for a new job and supporting them.
it is important that epas are used to address new challenges, such as the environment, climate change, terrorism, and migration.
‒ i gave my consent to the ratification of the paris climate agreement.
this will trigger the entry into force of the first-ever universal, legally-binding global climate deal.
i am proud to say that without europe’s strong position on climate, the paris agreement would never have happened.
the eu has been leading international actions to fight climate change and has worked hard to make the paris agreement a success.
the implementation of the paris agreement will make a crucial contribution to global efforts to tackle climate change.
as the eu is one of the principal actors in the fight against climate change, it is essential that it continues to play a leading role in addressing global warming.
‒ i have voted in favour of the conclusion on behalf of the eu of the paris agreement adopted under the un framework convention on climate change.
the agreement was reached last year in the un climate conference in paris.
there is no time to waste, or the human, economic and environmental consequences will become unbearable.
by protecting our planet, we will also be setting the path for a smart and sustainable economic growth.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which proposes a contribution for sweden amounts to eur 3 957 918, in order to help find new jobs for 918 workers made redundant by ericsson in a climate of stagnating growth and increasingly tough competition from asian producers.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report on the future of relations between african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries and the eu beyond 2020, which is the parliament’s contribution to the follow-up of the international cotonou agreement that was launched in 2000 and is due to expire in 2020. the economic partnership agreements (epas) are used as developing instruments to boost intra-african trade, which immensely helps those countries, speeds up their economies and integrates them into the global economy, but they could also be used as an instrument to address new challenges, such as environment, climate change, terrorism, and migration.
the eu needs to be ambitious in achieving sustainable development.
sdg2 aims to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030 by increasing productivity of smallholders and achieving sustainable agriculture for 8.5 billion people by 2030. the wha came up with 6 global nutrition targets for 2026. this report is calling for: financial investment, a reduction in food waste, nutrition strategies, public awareness and education on these problems, to support crop genetic diversity and combat land grabbing, prevent trade distortions in agriculture, humanitarian aid, social safety nets and data collection.
‒ though i fully support the struggle to ensure food security and the need for development policy to be interlinked with trade, agriculture and energy policies i could not support the final version of the text as it would endanger jobs and growth that could form international investment.
but tonight i would also like to look through the lens of a citizen of malta, a small island in the middle of the mediterranean, a region considered to be one of the most exposed to climate change.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which promotes accounting standards that ensure financial stability, sustainable growth, and long-term investment.
‒ i fully recognise the importance of the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh.
this resolution aims to define parliament’s position in view of the upcoming cop22 climate conference which will be held in november 2016. it addresses a number of very positive issues, including the reduction of non-co2 emissions, climate resilience through adaptation, and climate diplomacy, but it also calls for the introduction of a financial transactions tax, which i cannot support.
‒ i support measures aimed to mitigate global warming and agree with the motion which states clearly that this should not be seen as an obstacle to striving for economic growth but should, on the contrary, be seen as a driving force in the realisation of new and sustainable economic growth and employment.
climate-related developments in parts of africa and the middle east could contribute to political instability, economic hardship and an escalation of the refugee crisis in the mediterranean.
‒ less than a year after the success of cop21, we will in marrakesh celebrate the world's commitment to climate action.
in marrakesh, the european commission and eu member states will have to specify their long-term strategies on decarbonising the economy and clarify their financial commitments to reduce the negative effects of climate change.
the draft resolution addresses issues such as the urgency to ratify and implement the paris agreement, pre-2020 ambition, negotiation points, the role of non-state actors, climate finance and the reduction of non-co2 emissions among others.
i have voted in favour of this resolution because it is imperative that climate change is addressed immediately, particularly for vulnerable regions such as the mediterranean region.
‒ while i fully stand behind the un’s efforts to combat and curtail climate change, i could not support this resolution as the final version of the text called for the introduction of a financial transaction tax, which would have a disproportionate negative effect on the union’s smaller economies such as malta and would infringe the principle of subsidiarity.
‒ eu legislation needs to facilitate social, judicial, environmental and economic processes and not be burdensome or increase bureaucracy.
‒ i have voted in favour of the report, which shows that the environment, transport and the internal market and services remained the policy areas in which most infringement cases were open in 2014. according to the report the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased as a result of the effectiveness of the informal ‘eu pilot procedure’.
the draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law in line with the precautionary principle, which is to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community.
i have consistently voted against placing on the market genetically modified organisms within the community in line with the precautionary principle, which i believe should be followed in issues related to human health and the environment of our citizens.
herbicide-resistant crops could encourage the more liberal use of these chemicals which can have knock-on environmental and health effects, especially in the third countries in which they are grown.
in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community.
i have consistently voted against placing on the market genetically modified organisms within the community in line with the precautionary principle which i believe should be followed in issues related to human health and the environment of our citizens.
in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community.
i have consistently voted against placing on the market genetically modified organisms within the community in line with the precautionary principle, which i believe should be followed in issues related to human health and the environment of our citizens.
in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community.
i have consistently voted against placing on the market genetically modified organisms within the community in line with the precautionary principle, which i believe should be followed in issues related to human health and the environment for our citizens.
‒ i chose to support this objection to the placing on the market of genetically modified maize mon 810 products as the commission’s draft implementing decision risks endangering health, the ecosystem and consumer interests.
in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community.
‒ i believe that this draft commission implementing decision is not consistent with union law, in that it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is, in accordance with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, to provide the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
i have consistently voted against placing on the market genetically modified organisms within the community in line with the precautionary principle, which i believe should be followed in issues related to human health and the environment of our citizens
in writing.
doubts about this cotton’s safety for human health and the environment are still being debated.
‒ i chose to support this objection on the placing on the market of genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 as the commission’s draft implementing decision risks endangering health, the ecosystem and consumer interests.
in accordance with the precautionary principle, to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and to protect human health and the environment when carrying out the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any other purposes than placing on the market within the community and placing on the market genetically modified organisms as or in products within the community.
i would speak from the point of view of malta because, yes, we do understand that, to reach the eu’s energy and climate targets by 2030 (but most of all provide affordable energy), liquefied natural gas should be considered as an alternative fuel solution, particularly for certain member states.
lng not only cuts down radically co2 emissions but is also a transitory link between the current fuel-based system and the futures’ low carbon energy and transport scenarios, including also for vehicles and maritime vessels.
it is positive that this strategy acknowledges that lng and gas storage will contribute towards ending energy isolation, which affects member states, including malta – more so since it is a key objective of the eu’s energy union that all member states have access to liquid gas markets.
lng is the ideal transitory fuel for a number of member states that need to move from a fossil-fuel based economy to a non-pollutant source of energy.
lng is a cleaner source of energy for a number of countries which are until today dependant on coal or heavy fuel oil.
we need to make sure to move away from pollutant energy sources and diversify our energy supply to ensure energy security and these points are all acknowledged in the report.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as it stresses the importance of ensuring the effective control of fishing activities in order to guarantee sustainability of living marine resources and maintain a level playing field among eu fleets.
i voted in favour of a more uniform fisheries controls in europe which takes into consideration the environment and fish stocks.
i am in favour of this report as it aims to improve the accessibility and connection of transport infrastructure which recognises the need of cycling provisions in new road development, protection of the environment and biodiversity while including measures to reduce road accidents.
meanwhile, the need for ongoing structural reforms has to be underlined, on the understanding that such reforms must be sustainable and socially fair.
among others there are: proposals relating to access to equity and bank lending; to research and innovation; to education and training; to the promotion of smes; to efsi and other funds that mobilise capital for new investment with a renewed structure aiming for a complete regional outreach of such funding; and on such lines also, the concept of green investment with environmental protection at its core.
an example of realities which require further financing is the current refugee and migratory challenges while continuing with the support of sustainable development goals and the funding for victims of terrorism amongst others.
an example of realities which require further financing are the current refugee and migratory challenges while continuing with the support of sustainable development goals and the funding for victims of terrorism amongst others.
generally the new regulation is to address the increased risks in the plant health sector from new pests and diseases arising from globalisation and climate change, as well as the risk associated with plants imported from third countries.
‒ i voted against the motion to reject the council position as new rules are needed to curb the number of plant pests that infect the union’s ecosystem.
europe’s long economic crisis has highlighted the need to facilitate investment in education, innovation and research and development, while enhancing the eu’s competitiveness by pursuing sustainable structural reforms to boost quality job creation and implementing responsible fiscal policies to create a better environment for jobs, businesses (especially smes) and investment.
in the current economic climate it is essential that the union continues to support innovation and job creation whilst not pursuing policies that may breach the principle of subsidiarity in the areas of tax policy.
we must raise our youth in a way that makes them aware of how crucial sustainability is, and helps them implement this principle in their day-to-day lives without a second thought.
fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
artemis was set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas to strengthen european union competitiveness and sustainability.
fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the updated integrated schedule for the iter project for the development of fusion energy is challenging but achievable according to the iter council review group.
i am positive that the action plan provided by the director of the european joint undertaking for iter identifies further improvements in the undertaking’s own operations in the development of fusion energy.
‒ i supported the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, and nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
‒ i supported this cross-party resolution, which calls for the principle of nuclear non-proliferation to be maintained and reinforced, especially in the current climate of open hostility between nuclear armed states.
member states that still need to define a legal environment for volunteers to use the recommendations in the policy agenda for volunteering in europe and the european charter on the rights and responsibilities of volunteers.
i also support the priorities set out in this youth strategy, as they seek to facilitate the transition from school to the work environment, foster active citizenship while also promoting social inclusion and solidarity.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, as it calls for an agricultural policy which delivers a more competitive and sustainable european agricultural model based on family-run, diversified and multifunctional holdings and generates fairly paid jobs.
the report sets out a number of solutions which include support for farmers to branch out into rural tourism, the production of renewable energy, and also organic farming.
they helped prevent a recurrence of 2008 but they have not led to a stable, significant and sustainable recovery in europe.
the report also notes that in order to ensure a fair and sustainable fishing industry, we must ensure that the fishing community has legal certainty and that a long-term plan for cod stock which is fully in line with the principles of the reformed common fisheries policy is implemented.
‒ i approve of this long-term plan because it directs the member states in determining the methods used to calculate annual fishing effort usages that will lead to better cod stock management and increase the stocks’ long-term sustainability.
i agree that the csdp has a key role to play in conflict prevention as well as in post-conflict capacity and peace building in ensuring a global stable environment.
whilst waterborne passenger transport and waterborne freight transport face different challenges and have different needs in terms of infrastructure, environmental challenges, operational issues, security and port-city relations the integration of waterborne passenger hubs into european policy on interconnecting infrastructure, as already implemented through eu will provide further european added value.
by making better use of available capacity of waterborne passenger transport we could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall.
we need to also encourage cleaner fuels to lower co2 emissions.
– i agree on the importance of official development aid and sustainable financing for development, while promoting an approach that goes beyond aid and aid-providing agendas.
air pollution, as we have heard, knows no distance, no national or european borders.
here we have issues with direct health and environmental consequences for all citizens of the european union.
and while it is positive that air pollution is being given more prominence on the political agenda, also because of the serious implications on public health, unfortunately we still have many member states that are still not meeting the agreed standards.
moreover, cities and even localities most exposed to air pollution must step up their efforts to effectively control these problems and remain in line with the european union's emissions targets.
industry and all economic sectors should follow a more sustainable path.
but to really succeed, rich and developed countries must honour their promise to provide financial support and assistance to those developing countries that are serious about tackling climate change.
leaders from around the world must recognise that tackling climate change is an urgent duty and that the whole world must pull together.
the real-world change is happening faster than governments are moving in negotiations and the talks in marrakesh have shown that we cannot turn back the clock on the transition to cleaner energy.
it is clear that governments need to move, they need to act faster to make the transition sustainable and cost-effective for the benefit of our countries, our economies and our citizens.
my vote is conditional on the decision that parliament will provide more time for a proper analysis of the agreement to ensure that that the european parliament’s various committees, including the environment committee, will be given the opportunity to analyse the agreement and submit their informed opinion.
such should also contribute to the reduction of the health-related costs of air pollution in the union by improving eu citizens’ quality of life as well as to favour the transition to a green economy; given that in europe the total external health-related costs to society from air pollution are estimated to be in the range of eur 330 to 940 billion per year.
it is of the essence that member states establish a system of routine and non-routine environmental inspections and market surveillance and public reporting of mobile and stationary sources to ensure that policies and measures are effective in delivering emission reductions under real operating conditions.
we need to address the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution.
i am in favour of this report as it seeks to set limits on each member state for five toxic pollutants and thus to reduce national emissions.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because air pollution has detrimental effects on our health and hazardous emissions should be minimised wherever possible.
‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is an important step in addressing the high health risks and environmental impacts posed by air pollution.
around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected.
i agree that the csdp has a key role to play in conflict prevention as well as in post-conflict capacity and peace building in ensuring a global stable environment.
i support the precautionary stand by the rapporteur when stating that it is insufficient to conclude that, for at least one of the representative uses, a plant protection product containing the active substance bentazone may be expected not to have any harmful effect on human or animal health or on groundwater or any unacceptable influence on the environment.
‒ whilst acknowledging that bentazone is a post-emergent herbicide used against broadleaved weeds, commonly used for crops in agriculture, and that it can leach under conditions of extreme rainfall due to its high mobility, it is also worth looking at its impacts on the environment and citizens’ health, such as the high potential for direct leaching to groundwater due to its inherent properties, before reauthorising this substance for the maximum 15 years.
‒ european society is ageing and pension systems across the european union have to adapt in order to ensure sustainable pensions.
in doing so, we will be preserving our rich biodiversity for future generations, which is essential.
one of the big challenges for the future is to create a positive business environment for entrepreneurs in the collaborative economy.
‒ sustainable development and the revolution in the field of information and communication technology have created unprecedented opportunities and challenges for firms of all sizes in terms of responding to the increasing demand for sustainable mobility within the constraints of limited infrastructure.
‒ i have voted in favour of the eu-ghana stepping stone economic partnership agreement because i agree that we must have guarantees in place to ensure that working conditions and sustainable development practices in such sectors complement our long standing calls for policy coherence for development.
therefore, it is important to push for strong and effective sustainable development chapters, which we want to see included in any type of epa.
the proposed mobilisation requires an amendment to the 2016 budget and a draft amending budget (no 6/2016), aiming at increasing budget article 13 06 01 ‘assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment or the economy’ by eur 31 475 125 both in commitment and in payment appropriations.
efforts to invest in climate change mitigation and adaptation must be stepped up.
i believe that in light of this exceptional and very serious situation, the commission should consider having sustainable reconstruction and any anti-seismic investments excluded from the calculation of national deficits in the framework of the stability and growth pact.
the case of energy commissioner miguel arias cañete shows that the current system does not suffice.
‒ offshore oil and gas operations are progressively taking place in increasingly extreme environments and could potentially have major and devastating consequences for the environment and economy of the sea and coastal areas.
‒ i am in favour of this report as offshore oil and gas operations could have major devastating consequences for the environment and economy of our seas with these offshore facilities likely to increase in europe over the next few years.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because offshore oil and gas operations are delicate and can pose risks to citizens, the natural environment and to the economy if conducted poorly.
‒ there is a strong relationship between energy and potential security issues and consider that energy governance, while also difficult to implement, is essential to economic and human development in developing countries.
‒ i am in favour of this resolution as it identifies the strong relationship between energy and potential security issues while it considers that energy governance is essential to economic and human development in developing countries.
africa has a high potential of renewable energy sources in terms of solar and wind production which is crucial in order to ensure access to energy for all, and more must be done to assist the development of the african community in this regard.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution since access to energy is key to increasing development and can complement the eu’s other efforts to reduce energy poverty.
as representatives of our citizens across the eu, we need to answer our constituents’ calls when they ask us for policies that will deliver better air quality and cleaner energy.
i believe that this package introduces significant improvements in energy efficiency, which, if properly carried out, can lift people out of energy poverty, cut greenhouse gas emissions and create jobs.
energy efficiency comes first, and rightly so.
on the other hand, we need to make sure that renewable targets can actually deliver the results we want and do not slow down the momentum reached during cop21.
the technology and the solutions are there, and we need to make sure that we deliver a package that will seriously tackle climate change in the decades to come.
‒ cultural and creative industries have the potential to help to alleviate the current economic and employment difficulties in the european union and promote inclusive and sustainable growth as well as innovation.
‒ i have voted in favour of this agreement, which calls to continue a reciprocal access of vessels from denmark, norway and sweden for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in the skagerrak.
‒ this agreement ensures continued reciprocal access of vessels from denmark, norway and sweden for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in skagerrak.
the research funded covers very important aspects of this industry, such as production processes, utilisation and conservation of resources, environmental improvements and safety at work in the relevant sectors.
in its holistic approach to find sustainable, long-term and coherent solutions, based on international human rights standards, it highlights the importance of differentiating between refuges and migrants.
we have thus not only reduced the waste of time but also the costs for citizens while providing a framework for a better service.