we are going to have a tight timetable on rde emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
i hear from the top of the industry in europe that they want to set an example and be sustainable.
more european union, more banking union, more tax union, more union in the surveillance of external borders, more union in energy supply, more union in the accession of corrupt countries, more union in the admission of refugees, more union in the emptying of pension funds and more union in the looting of savings accounts for bankrupt banks.
it is truly a historic agreement that gave a clear signal that the world is, in an irreversible way, going towards a low carbon economy.
what about carbon leakage?
the idea of carbon leakage is based on the assumption that the rest of the world is not doing what we are doing.
so what are we going to do about carbon leakage now?
finally, i would like to talk about competitiveness because, if the paris agreement made one thing clear to our economy, it is that low carbon will be more competitive than high carbon and that is a very crucial notion.
to give you one example, we had a historic moment this week at the amsterdam stock exchange, where one company that is leading in sustainability, unilever, for the first time in history became more valuable than a company that it is not seen as one of those leaders, royal dutch shell.
so my clear question to you is: do you believe that, in order to safeguard european competitiveness, we should step up our efforts towards a low carbon economy in europe?
i have not had the opportunity to congratulate you on the outcome of the climate conference in paris last month.
we must definitively move away from fossil fuels and switch to alternative, sustainable sources of energy.
we need to be smarter and more economical with our energy.
i asked secretary of state sharon dijksma last week what they were going to do to implement the climate agreement, but she refused to go into that.
europe must show leadership and make a radical commitment to renewable energy and raise ambition.
if it's about refugees, it should be positive, if it's about the climate, it should be a doomsday scenario.
and the commission's spin doctor didn't have much trouble linking those two elements together and introducing the concept of climate refugee.
'climate refugee' means: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the effect of this so-called climate refugee was really only to warm up cologne and other european cities and to further cool down the enthusiasm for the eu.
madam president, after the previous european biodiversity strategy completely failed, i became rapporteur in 2011 on biodiversity, and we agreed here that this time it would be different.
in this plenary hall we all emphasised the enormous importance of biodiversity for mankind.
from the far left all the way to the far right, this time would be different, and yes, the reform of the fisheries policy was successful and made it much more sustainable.
we did not make it more sustainable.
so here we are in 2016, half way, and one conclusion stands: the eu fails seriously in achieving its biodiversity strategy.
so, commissioner – and the absent council – do not let 500 million europeans down, and please take serious steps on biodiversity.
the world faces a huge challenge to produce food while reducing the pressure on our ecosystem.
it is precisely through new technologies and applications that we are producing more and more food, while at the same time reducing our environmental impact and improving the health of our animals.
i therefore believe that the greatest threat to our biodiversity is not agriculture and horticulture.
there's no one solution to conserving biodiversity, but by doing modern farming, we reduce the pressure on our natural resources and we need less land per kilogram of food.
only by working together, using common sense and engaging all stakeholders will you create the best solutions to meet biodiversity goals.
i believe that, once adopted, this timely solution – together with the council conclusions delivered last december – can very much help steer the eu towards achieving its biodiversity targets.
the commission’s mid-term review, the council conclusions and parliament’s report all send a consistent message about the critical importance of the effective integration of biodiversity objectives with, and into, all the other sectors.
the european parliament has a very important and crucial role to play in reaching eu biodiversity targets, both in raising awareness of the value of biodiversity by actually integrating biodiversity objectives into other eu policies and by actually transforming the calls for this resolution into concrete decisions on eu policies and funding.
i can assure her that all members of the college, including first vice-president timmermans, are as much in favour of nature and biodiversity as are all of us.
to the many comments from the honourable members who pointed out that we have to involve farmers if biodiversity targets are to be achieved: yes, i agree.
we have been talking about implementation, but let us not forget that the state of the environment report, the state of the nature report, and the mid-term review itself, identify and point to a number of causes, not simply implementation.
in the implementation of the current cap, the emphasis in the next years should be on ensuring that the potential of biodiversity support measures is used fully at the national and local levels.
given their role in managing landscapes, farmland and nature, farmers should be supported and rewarded for protecting and restoring biodiversity, and for the services they deliver to the public.
achieving the eu biodiversity targets is, after all, as important for society at large as it is for the farming sector itself.
the conclusions of the biodiversity mid-term strategy give grounds for both concern and optimism.
we have a growing network of stakeholders and citizens who are very committed to protecting and enhancing biodiversity.
we need to capitalise on this to put the eu back on track to reaching our biodiversity targets.
one of the greatest threats to biodiversity is intensive livestock farming.
the huge nitrogen emissions pollute surface water, air and soil, reducing biodiversity in the vicinity of livestock factories.
a shift to sustainable agriculture and livestock farming is necessary to halt the loss of valuable nature and the extinction of thousands of animal and plant species.
the european birds and habitats directives are important and should not be relaxed, but rather strengthened and better enforced to stop the dramatic loss of biodiversity in europe.
the commission's proposals are seriously affecting the business environment in europe.
of course it would be nice if the netherlands signed it and the presidency could get some momentum on this dossier, because it is now about the energy charter.
those authorities would like to focus on energy, security and other issues of mutual concern, and i too would prefer not to have to ask the bahraini authorities again to stop torture, to stop repressing minority opinions, to stop revoking people’s citizenships, and now – the worst punishment of all – to stop the death penalty.
dear british friends, we want you in; we need you in, and not because of some vague deal but because only with a strong united europe can we respond to the challenges of the 21st century: refugees, terrorism, climate change and the energy crisis.
and on investments: only if really viable; if that is the reason why you would vote against, then just look at the fact that on structural reform and investment we say that the sustainable transition of member states’ economies towards greater resource efficiency is crucial.
i would like to make an urgent appeal to you and to the dutch presidency: fight for the full and sustainable asylum policy that you so passionately advocated in 2009.
to the cowardly leaders of europe, i say: "shame on you!"
european pig farmers must invest heavily to meet strict animal welfare and environmental requirements.
at the same time, the cost of living in the netherlands has increased enormously in recent years due to the stricter application of environmental and animal welfare standards, mrs hazekamp.
secondly, add value to our agricultural products by differentiating ourselves in terms of taste, quality or sustainability.
‒ this report follows the european commission's policy of a minimum vat rate of 15% until 2017. this is a missed opportunity, because member states should be able to apply a much lower vat rate for sustainable, healthy, environmentally and animal-friendly goods and services.
on the one hand, the commission preaches sustainability, but when it comes down to it, member states are not free to tax the production of sustainable products and services and to encourage the purchase of these products.
the commission's vat action plan should provide much more flexibility for member states to set vat rates for sustainable, healthy, environmentally and animal-friendly goods and services.
multinationals use isds clauses in trade agreements to claim money from countries that they see as setting restrictive rules to protect the environment, animal welfare or public health, for example.
but it is mainly used in the fields of environmental protection, social legislation, animal welfare, public health, consumer protection and food safety.
regulations that should protect citizens, animals and the environment must now give way to short-sighted commercial interests and the pursuit of profit; the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the rules are applied.
there is a great need for a shift towards less fishing and more sustainability.
if we do not start now to drastically reduce the impact of fishing on the marine environment, many fish species will go extinct.
‒ sustainable management of global fish stocks requires a view beyond europe's borders.
the report makes a good contribution to a more sustainable management of the oceans.
the gsp+ trade preferences may only be granted to countries that are signatories to 27 un conventions in the fields of human rights, labour rights and environmental protection.
the sp voted in favour of the report as a whole, as it is very critical of developments in the field of human rights, democracy and the fight against corruption in the partner countries concerned and stresses that trade and geopolitical interests of the union are subordinated to human rights, environment and development in the (european) policy in the region.
the gsp+ trade preferences may only be granted to countries that are signatories to 27 un conventions in the fields of human rights, labour rights and environmental protection.
the sp voted in favour of the report as a whole because it is very critical of developments in the field of human rights, democracy and the fight against corruption in the partner countries concerned and stresses that trade and geopolitical interests of the union are subordinated to human rights, environment and development in the (european) policy in the region.
joint funding, joint strategy, eu 2020, growth, jobs, sustainability, that is what we are working for.
what we do know is that wages and environmental standards are lower in china than they are in the eu.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the demands of the world market.
however, for households the bill is mainly determined by the environmental taxes to pay for those same windmills, in addition to energy taxes to satisfy the endless money hunger of our socialist governments.
if your proposals have any reality, why is there no small-scale energy economy?
and that unreliability of small-scale energy is not mentioned in the report.
what remains is a report in which the commission, in a future perspective of total control, goes far beyond its mandate, because under article 194 of the treaty the eu is not allowed to interfere with a member state's choice of its energy sources or the structure of its own energy supply.
climate change, declining biodiversity, scarcity of natural resources such as water and fertile agricultural land and growing resistance to antibiotics: the world around us is changing, with its challenges.
through knowledge and innovation, we can feed the world's growing population with ever better food, while improving environmental impacts and animal welfare.
our tractors run on gps, drones monitor our crops, waste streams like manure can be converted into valuable products for fertilizer or energy, and so on.
the sector is able to feed the world, to preserve the environment and to take good care of the animals.
farmers and gardeners should not rely on a checklist of measures that seem to have been devised from behind a desk, but on the actual contribution to people, animals and the environment.
these were your words when you introduced the sustainable development goals.
bank watch concluded that, without efsi, the eib is subsidising 25% of the projects related to climate.
we should not look at the statistics day by day, but look at how we can achieve sustainable development, energy transition, and so on, in the slightly longer term.
the manufacturing industry is a major contributor to the economy and a source of employment, but european companies, such as the steel industry, are also required to adhere to strict environmental standards.
finally, japan is not the only threat to the survival of whales, as plastic waste is poisoning them and leading to massive strandings, especially on european coasts.
this is very important for other marine regions for which the development of these plans will allow for sustainable long-term management.
this plan raises the maximum sustainable yield, the point at which waters are fished to their maximum.
and maximum sustainable yield is nothing but policy greed.
this plan goes one step further: increasing the maximum sustainable yield, and for that i have only one word: overfishing.
and with those bandwidths, we can reach maximum sustainable yield and all fish stocks can benefit from that, too.
– mr president, let me start with two energy reports that were published recently.
the first one says wind and solar are crushing fossil fuels, and it says that in 2015 energy investments in renewables were twice as much as in fossil fuels.
two huge energy bids in mexico and morocco were won by renewable programmes – not because they were renewable, but because they promised the cheapest energy, and that was renewable.
the other report says that europe is losing its reputation as a renewable energy leader, and that is a very, very worrying report.
last year, investments in renewable energy in europe plummeted by 21%, while spending in the rest of the world boomed.
what we are witnessing in the world is a global race for cheap and secure energy, and that is renewable energy.
but the main focus is to get cheap and clean renewable energy.
i don’t think that nord stream is a very smart project to undertake, but what is even more worrying is that progress towards a true european energy union is being slowed down by our member states.
we have 28 energy unions today.
we need one energy union – one combined focus on the transition towards cheap, secure and clean energy, and that is the main focus we should have in europe.
i appreciate the attention to labour rights, public health and the environment, but i regret that the report is stuck in the blind faith of free trade.
it is much better for the environment when our products are not being hauled hundreds or even thousands of kilometres.
only then can we improve the environment, take in refugees in a humane way, tackle tax evasion.
they want control of their own environment.
never a waste of a good crisis.
but it takes energy and taxes, and therefore economic growth, to control the lives of others and to be controlled.
brexit showed more or less what the consequences of two separate worlds can be: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
this year, no doubt, we will devote a lot of energy and attention to trade and investment with china, and we need to ensure that these are fair and rules-based.
let the european union devote all its energy to this.
we readily accept that the commission intervenes in matters of tax evasion, state aid, or disrespect for environmental standards.
he painted a sinister picture of a totally poisoned social climate.
we are not only talking about elephants, rhino or the psychedelic lizard: no, we are focusing on the main problem that we face in the world in this regard, namely wildlife crime – a growing threat to biodiversity and the environment, and also a global problem in terms of security, the rule of law, human rights and sustainable development, because we all know that those things go together.
like the agenda of the conference of the parties, we are focusing on different issues than before, like demand reduction, sustainable livelihoods, combating corruption and effectiveness and implementation of cites.
september was a record month, with 6.6 billion waste reported in september.
mr president, tomorrow is world animal day and the party for the animals is asking you to think about the 7 billion animals in our livestock industry, because we can fight hunger and save these animals a long road of suffering by stopping the waste of food for animal feed.
– (inaudible) ... what they want to do with regard to climate change.
the eu has nothing to do with this, and the eu should not ratify this climate agreement.
the agreements are one-sidedly detrimental to developed countries, the climate effects are not clear at all and citizens must again bear enormous costs.
they will benefit from these climate action plans, but the hard-working citizens in the member states will soon pay more for their electricity, their car, their heating, you name it.
many loads of fruit and vegetables disappeared in waste containers after refugees pooped and peed on them.
it is not sustainable for the thousands of refugees, it is not sustainable for the local population and it is not sustainable for the transport sector.
that's good for the environment and good for mobility.
a drawn-out feud over eastern ukraine and crimea, the blackmailing of the independent investigation into the downing of mh17 and the commission of the most heinous war crimes in syria: the cold climate of the cold war is back.
factors such as the investment climate, accessibility, the educational level of the population, energy prices and the legal labour supply are of primary importance.
– mr president, this debate and this resolution are the result of our commitment and our friendship with the thai people and it is because of this commitment and friendship that we share some of our concerns here today: concerns about the labour rights for migrants in thailand, concerns about the disproportionate use of criminal defamation laws, and concerns about the climate and the legal framework in which human rights defenders like andy hall have to do their work to speak for those who cannot speak for themselves.
the human capital is iran’s most valuable asset, so imagine what is possible when development goes hand in hand with human rights and fundamental freedoms, when labour rights are improved – including for women – and when environmental protection is upgraded.
our group sees opportunity to cooperate on environmental protection, on which what little civil society remains in iran is bravely pushing for more action.
‒ as one of the richest continents and one of the main drivers of climate change, europe has an extra responsibility to take the lead in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
a healthy future lies in a sustainable, decentralized energy supply.
the strategy focuses on the liberalisation of the energy market, while the negative effects of (liquid) natural gas and gas storage are not mentioned.
‒ the eu strategy to spend money on gas storage undermines the freedom of member states to determine their own 'energy mix' guaranteed by the treaty.
repealing a law for energy labels for vacuum cleaners, fine, but is that really what is keeping people awake at night?
i know there will be some discussions also on ecodesign and i know that you are a very good person who can convince people, so can you convince people also within your commission how important it is to reduce our energy use?
with the vacuum cleaners we have saved energy equivalent to four coal-fired power plants.
that is good for the environment, that is good for our economy, and it is good for our self-reliance on energy.
that is what the ecodesign directive is about and i am sure that you can convey that message, rather than what a lot of tabloids are doing in portraying this as a regulatory burden, because i as a consumer do not mind what the rules are, but if in the end if i buy appliances that are much more energy efficient that is a good thing for us citizens.
so getting interest from our citizens needs a sustainable approach, and that is why a resolution is now being prepared in the committee on regional development which will be brought to the plenary at the end of this year or the beginning next year.
the pvv cannot support this waste of taxpayers' money.
the pvv cannot support the resulting waste of scarce resources.
i would like to compliment the members of the european court of auditors, because they are the rock in the middle of the sea of waste.
and even though the post—coup environment has exacerbated the pressure and has seen the emergency measures being adopted, the banning of books, the arrest of journalists and the restrictions of press freedom and the stifling of oppositional voices has been systematic.
the gülen movement, now accused of plotting the coup but previously a key ally of the erdoğan government, was instrumental in creating an environment of fear, together with ak party politicians.
a climate in which critics were silenced, trials were unfair and the gap between the letter of the law and its actual implementation grew and grew.
we introduced it during the oil boycott by the arab countries to save energy.
meanwhile, it turns out that the whole energy argument doesn't add up.
several studies show that this arrangement saves little or no energy, but causes many disadvantages, such as and then we are talking about human sleep disorders.
evening fillies ride more in ozone heat, which is bad for the climate.
to save energy, we can insulate homes better, install more solar panels, or have cars indicate actual use.
the agricultural sector, especially young farmers with a lot of land equity, often have to take out a new mortgage, among other things to comply with animal welfare, the nitrate directive and the climate agreement.
hundreds of thousands of people have been fired, mass arrests have taken place, journalists are imprisoned and ngos are closed amid a climate of fear and self-censorship.
a trade agreement on environmental goods must aim at protecting the environment.
okay, we're not accepting just about any product at this point, and the list of environmental goods has already gotten a little shorter, it doesn't include every wild idea anymore.
in what world is that good for the environment?
perhaps you are seeking to protect the environment with the present timing of the convention, but who can guarantee that this will continue to be the case?
moreover, trade agreements by definition cause environmental damage.
methane is a greenhouse gas and is already regulated through climate targets.
moreover, it allows the agricultural sector to retain the flexibility to determine how it will reduce its emissions of various greenhouse gases.
on the other hand, it is the organic and conventional sectors that can make a major contribution to reducing greenhouse gases in the atmosphere by sequestering co2 in the soil via organic matter.
we are discussing air pollution.
if there is one thing that is clearly a european competence and that is really cross-border, it is air pollution.
mr president, today the european environment agency is presenting its annual air quality report, and it shows once again that one sector is doing far, far too little to improve air quality, and that is the agricultural sector.
is dirty air, dirty emissions, less harmful than the air from agriculture?
in europe, ammonia emissions have been reduced by 30% since 1990. in the netherlands, ammonia emissions have been reduced by 70 percent.
the limitation has cost our farming family farms, which have suffered greatly from these extra-heavy environmental measures, enormous efforts and it is therefore good that both parliament and the council have adopted a revision clause on this compromise.
we will work with non—member states to maximise their support, including from european union financing and from synergies with, for instance, eu climate and energy policies for the successful and cost—effective implementation of the directive.
on the review of methane emissions, the commission has made a declaration because it considers that there is a strong air-quality case for keeping the development of methane emissions in the member states under review in order to reduce the ozone concentrations in the eu and to promote methane reductions internationally.
the commission confirms that, on the basis of the reported national emissions, it intends to assess further the impact of methane emissions on achieving the objectives set out in article 1(2) of the nec directive; it will consider measures for reducing those emissions and, where appropriate, will submit a legislative proposal for that purpose.
i would like to close by again thanking the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs for making possible this major step forward in air pollution control.
nearly half a million people die every year in europe from the effects of air pollution.
europe should adopt the world health organisation guidelines, which impose much higher requirements on particulate matter, ozone, nitrogen dioxide and sulphur dioxide.
under pressure from the agricultural sector, the greenhouse gas methane has been removed from the proposal and the standards for ammonia are being lowered.
while these substances are a huge contributor to the pollution of our air and also cause people to suffer serious health problems or die prematurely.
at the start of the marrakech cop i had one hope, and that was that the entire world would send a message to washington that the paris agreement and the process after that would be irreversible, that the world would move towards this zero-carbon economy, and that in the end is exactly what happened.
if president-elect trump has achieved anything, it is that the world is much more united now behind this transition towards a zero-carbon economy, and even countries like india seem to be much more determined now than they were a few months ago – as does china.
it is only two years since president obama struck the deal with president xi jinping on climate with china.
before that, china was one of the biggest obstacles in international climate negotiations, and look at it now.
we think that our trees will save us in the fight against climate change and that is not going to happen.
fortunately, the climate summit in morocco reaffirmed the paris agreement and everyone called for concrete action.
and i find it encouraging that in the united states in particular, there are more and more companies that are standing up for sustainable production, sustainable business, just as mr. trump is coming.
business and government must show in these sectors that they are taking climate change seriously.
because if we really want to tackle climate change and its effects, we need everyone to do their part: both companies and governments.
everyone who is talking about the importance of climate change – and i am looking at my epp colleagues now – make sure you also deliver on ets, because in the current negotiations we are only discussing ‘protecting, protecting, protecting’ and forgetting the ambition, and that is making us weak internationally.
president, that does not seem to me to be a very wise approach when you have a lot of business to do with this gentleman, for example negotiating a climate agreement.
so the biggest saboteurs of your climate treaty don't live in china, don't live in the white house; the biggest saboteur of the climate agreement has his office a few hundred metres from here, and that is the incompetent mr juncker.
‒ free trade agreements such as ceta and ttip are a disaster for animals, for nature and for the environment, but they also pose a threat to democracy.
until there is conclusive evidence that the use of bentazone is safe for humans, the environment and animals, the precautionary principle should apply.
this will provide participants with a better understanding of the environmental and societal impact of their pension fund's investment policy.
we are especially happy that, under the green initiative, pension funds are now obliged to report on their investments and future carbon stocks so that in the longer term the carbon bubble is being taken care of for the pension funds’ longer-term investments.
wildlife crime is a serious threat to biodiversity, but it is a threat to animals above all.
i would also like to draw attention to the importance of legal hunting, paragraph 56. in some reserves, sustainable legal wildlife management is an important source of income.
so certified legal sustainable hunting trophies can make a significant contribution, despite all the emotions and prejudices.
and i am therefore glad that the committee on the environment has supported my amendment on this point.
this has created a climate of fear and repression.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution.
and i am also critical, mr president, of the resolution which says in paragraph 7 that investments in sustainable recovery, in earthquake-resistant investments, should be excluded from the calculation of national deficits under the stability and growth pact.
where do we get the right to wipe out these unique species in one fell swoop from this unique ecosystem of monstrously large trawls?