it does not take a great deal of physical chemistry to conclude that excessive screw-down of diesel engine energy efficiency to reduce co2 emissions is accompanied by an increase in fuel combustion temperature.
i am in favour of the establishment of a committee in the european parliament to clarify who really made the mistake of imposing on the motor industry, without defining and precisely specifying the means of measuring emissions, environmental objectives which are unrealistic from the point of view of the course of physicochemical phenomena.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
overfishing has led to a drastic reduction in the number of this species in the ecosystem.
scientific research confirms that the tuna population increased for the first time in 2015. the high level of surveillance required by the eu (increased number and frequency of inspectors, vessels, aircraft and other means of control) has increased the tac for tuna by 20% compared to 2014. sustainable fishing, the regulation of stocks and fruitful cooperation between community countries are the source of success that has contributed to the development and protection of the valuable bluefin tuna species.
what is also worth noting in the report adopted by parliament is the provision i have proposed on the need to equalise access to all resources, but with a clear emphasis on access to energy sources, as well as its transmission and transport.
one of the most important factors in creating equity in the marketplace today is access to energy.
first of all, it is a report on the digital environment in the eu.
firstly, it is a report on the digital environment in the eu, not on direct taxes, and this is one of the reasons why i cannot support a text that contains such a call.
firstly, it is a report on the digital environment in the eu, not on direct taxes, and this is one of the reasons why i cannot support a text that contains such a call.
i regret that poland, until recently a european bully, bringing to the eu a vibrant economy, energy, freshness of vision and, above all, genuine support for the european community, is becoming a matter of concern and concern for the other member states.
the european union's action in favour of sustainable development in colombia and in support of the poorest provinces of the country, and its impact on the development of government and civil administration in regions where there is little or no central government jurisdiction, is therefore important.
thirdly, we need to answer the question of what to do with european climate policy after the paris cop.
the european union has the most advanced climate policy, but not everyone shares it.
the summit's decisions mean that it is time to put this policy into practice, which does not mean that we should not be ambitious, but that too much ambition will often harm the economy, for example through carbon leakage, which threatens the european union's industry.
i am pleased that it includes issues that i believe are particularly important, such as the announcement of actions in the field of simplification of legislation or the development of the energy union.
i also welcomed the fact that the presidency has identified the further development of the energy union and the reduction of the union's energy dependence as one of its priorities.
as regards gas appliances, i particularly agree with the requirements for maintenance by professional service personnel and the wording used in relation to carbon monoxide poisoning.
as regards carbon monoxide poisoning, i fully support the work carried out by the rapporteur in this area to raise awareness of this problem.
‒ the gas sector is vital to the eu economy and citizens, employing up to half a million europeans not only in the energy sector but also in the manufacture of gas-fired equipment.
of course, the issue of the migration crisis, which is also linked to a large extent to the humanitarian crisis, the fight against terrorism and also to human rights in various aspects related to the climate or in the context of sporting events.
because if we ourselves impose artificial energy prices, then all energy prices are artificial, and so all prices are practically artificial and we are not a market economy.
there is no doubt that biodiversity must be protected and poland is a country with such a rich biodiversity.
the report by mr demesmaeker clearly identifies the problems with the current strategy for the protection of biodiversity.
poland is keen to increase its energy independence from russia.
this can be done without harming biodiversity and there is no reason to believe that shale gas extraction is more risky than other types of industrial human activity.
‒ emissions of heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants affect human health and the environment around us.
both protocols list best available techniques for reducing emissions and reporting requirements, national emission limits and emission limits for different types of projects.
the 1979 heavy metals protocol aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury to reduce respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, as well as biodiversity and agricultural production losses due to heavy metals.
the 2012 amendments to the metals protocol introduce stricter limits for dust emissions from certain stationary sources of emissions, as well as flexible provisions to allow for the entry into force of these amendments.
‒ amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals, persistent organic pollutants.
pollution by heavy metals is one of the most important threats to human health and the environment.
the same factors are causing huge losses in agricultural production and biodiversity.
i am therefore convinced that raising the limits for emissions of heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants into the atmosphere, as well as updating the list of harmful metals, will significantly improve the quality of the environment and allow for the reconstruction and development of agriculture, thus positively affecting the health and lives of europeans.
‒ emissions of heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants affect human health and the environment.
these substances do not respect national borders and therefore international cooperation is required to control their emissions effectively.
in other words, they set up the tools to enable emissions reductions and to track progress.
the heavy metals protocol aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury to reduce respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, as well as biodiversity and agricultural production losses due to heavy metals.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the environment and human life.
it has established a framework to control and reduce the harm to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution.
however, almost 40 years after its signature, it is necessary to adapt to changes in both the economy and, above all, the environment.
these actions should contribute to enhancing the protection of health and the environment.
‒ amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals, persistent organic pollutants.
pollution by heavy metals is one of the most important threats to human health and the environment.
the same factors are causing huge losses in agricultural production and biodiversity.
i am therefore convinced that raising the limits for emissions of heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants into the atmosphere, as well as updating the list of harmful metals, will significantly improve the quality of the environment and allow for the reconstruction and development of agriculture, thus positively affecting the health and lives of europeans.
‒ emissions of heavy metals and persistent organic pollutants affect human health and the environment.
these substances do not respect national borders and therefore international cooperation is required to control their emissions effectively.
in other words, they set up the tools to enable emissions reductions and to track progress.
‒ the report notes with concern the overall trend towards biodiversity loss and calls on the commission and the member states to make this a political priority in order to achieve the 2020 targets.
the proposed measures should include the integration of biodiversity into other policy areas such as agriculture and forestry, an increase in the number of natura 2000 sites with management plans and an eu action plan on wildlife trade.
at this point, it should be noted that environmental policy and economic development are not mutually exclusive, with the alternative socioeconomic cost of not meeting the 2020 targets estimated at eur 50 billion per year, and one in six jobs in the eu being dependent to some extent on nature and biodiversity.
‒ the commission's review of biodiversity can make a decisive contribution to halting biodiversity loss and, above all, to increasing the european union's commitment to global biodiversity.
i share the rapporteur's concern about the growing trend towards biodiversity loss.
i would also like to point out that statistics show that one in six jobs in the european union depends on biodiversity and nature.
unfortunately, i cannot fully support the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy and all the solutions it proposes, because i am strongly opposed to the attempt to ban shale gas extraction, which is why i was forced to abstain from voting on this text.
‒ europe's biodiversity is at risk.
this is why the eu adopted a strategy in 2011 with the main objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2020. restoring natural ecosystems and protecting the environment are among the most important challenges facing the eu today.
the first priority is to improve the application of environmental laws in the various areas.
environmental issues are close to our citizens, as the polls show, and the european union remains a world leader in biodiversity conservation.
‒ in october 2015, the commission published a mid-term review of the eu's biodiversity strategy, analysing progress towards halting the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services by 2020, restoring ecosystems where possible and increasing the eu's commitment to preventing global biodiversity loss.
parliament noted with concern the general trend towards biodiversity loss and called on the commission and the member states to make this a political priority in order to achieve the 2020 targets.
the proposed measures include the integration of biodiversity into other policy areas such as agriculture and forestry, an increase in the number of natura 2000 sites with management plans and an eu action plan on wildlife trade.
parliament also stressed that environmental policy and economic development are not mutually exclusive, with the alternative socio-economic cost of not meeting the 2020 targets estimated at eur 50 billion per year and one in six jobs in the eu being dependent to some extent on nature and biodiversity.
‒ the protection and promotion of biodiversity is reflected in eu legislation, which is continuously committed to further strengthening the convention on biological diversity and its implementation.
in this context, it is particularly important to maintain political commitment not only at the eu legislative level but also at the regional and local level in the member states, as these have the greatest potential and opportunities to inform and raise public awareness of biodiversity.
in addition to the obvious environmental benefits, biodiversity conservation also has a very clear economic importance, especially when one in six jobs in the eu is dependent to some extent on nature and biodiversity, as this report shows.
good, sustainable farming practices can make a huge contribution to the conservation and protection of habitats, the containment of land degradation, the rational management of water resources, which can lead to effective climate change mitigation and the development of beneficial consumption patterns, while also serving important educational functions for those parts of society that are not in contact with nature and agriculture or forestry on a daily basis.
this strategy is an important part of the european union's overall strategy for the environment, society and the economy.
to make the strategy a reality, heads of state or government have set a core objective of halting the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services.
i agree with the proposed formula of the strategy, which is based on six pillars, each with its own objectives: full implementation of the birds and habitats directive; maintaining and restoring ecosystems and their functions; increasing the contribution of agriculture and forestry to the maintenance and enhancement of biodiversity; ensuring the sustainable use of fisheries resources; combating invasive alien species; and increasing the eu's commitment to preventing global biodiversity loss.
the adopted report also envisages the implementation of additional innovative solutions, such as the trans-european green infrastructure network ten-g, which can bring mutual benefits for society, the environment and the economy.
according to the eurobarometer on biodiversity, at least 8 out of 10 citizens stress that the consequences for biodiversity loss are serious.
as has been rightly noted, nature and biodiversity are of great importance to citizens.
i agree with the thesis that biodiversity and the environment must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and integrated europe.
‒ on 2 february 2016, a vote was held on the report by mr demesmaeker on the 'mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy', the european commission's report on the implementation of the eu biodiversity strategy by 2020. the objective of the european biodiversity strategy for 2020 is to halt and restore as much as possible by 2020 biodiversity loss and degradation of ecosystem services and to contribute to the prevention of global biodiversity loss.
there is no doubt that biodiversity must be protected, since it affects the sustainability of ecosystems in which humans are an integral part.
the draft resolution by mr demesmaeker was well balanced and correctly identified the issues in the eu's biodiversity strategy.
‒ i abstained in the vote on this report, which is the european parliament's response to the commission's mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy in 2015. while the general direction of this report is correct and i agree with it on many points, the content of article 88, which calls for a total ban on the use of hydraulic fracturing by member states, is unacceptable.
biodiversity and ecosystem balance is not only an ecological issue, but also has an economic dimension, as one in six jobs in the eu depends on nature and a clean environment.
however, proposals as far-reaching as banning shale gas extraction could threaten the future energy security of poland and many countries in our region.
this is all the more unacceptable since there is no convincing scientific evidence of the environmental harmfulness of hydraulic fracturing.
economic development is largely dependent on its own cheap energy.
in the face of the eu's decarbonisation policy, we cannot accept another reduction in our energy independence.
i remember when the french president - and i'm speaking to my french friends - spoke here in december 2007, saying that the climate package was great for the old union, but not so much for the new.
endocrine disruptors, as we're talking about, are substances that have a potentially large impact on the environment.
in order to effectively protect the environment and at the same time not to impose a disproportionate burden on farmers, the assessment criteria should be revised so that not all active substances are included in the category of endocrine disruptors, but only those that have a negative impact on the environment and human health.
i therefore do not support the objection prepared by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that europe should use the latest scientific developments to develop its agriculture and compete internationally, while ensuring food security for its citizens.
the gmo scientific panel of the european food safety authority (efsa) has published three scientific opinions on the safety assessment of, inter alia, genetically modified soybean fg72 and soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788, confirming the safety of both grains for health and the environment compared to their unmodified counterparts.
‒ real driving emissions (rde) testing is to be introduced as a new requirement for the type-approval of new cars and vans as an additional laboratory test.
the rde aims to provide real-world vehicle emission control and thus to solve the problem of high nitrogen oxide (nox) emissions from diesel vehicles and to eliminate the use of defeat devices, which occurred in the case of vw.
the introduction of rde tests will reduce the average nox emissions from these engines and help countries to meet their requirements, e.g.
‒ i voted against the resolution of the envi parliamentary committee calling for the withdrawal of the draft ec regulation on urea emissions while driving (rde).
the occurrence of increased nox with a significant reduction in co2 emissions by pe, greater than for petrol engines, was unexpected and was incremental rather than linear, resulting from exceeding a certain temperature threshold in the combustion chambers of diesel engines.
so i think by 2019, that emissions should be equivalent to what euro 5 diesel engines were.
‒ i voted against the resolution for several important reasons, namely: i consider it scientifically incorrect to assume a linear increase in co2 and nox reductions in parallel, scientific opinions convincingly prove the absence of such a rule; convincing are the commission's statements on the revision of the way emissions are measured and the new timetable.
‒ the problem of the discrepancy between the laboratory and everyday emissions of passenger cars with diesel engines has caused a huge stir in both europe and the us.
the proposed standard allowing diesel cars to exceed the laboratory emissions of nitrogen oxides by 2,1 times in normal operation by 2017 and to achieve full compliance of both laboratory and real-world emissions by 2020 seems to be a reasonable proposal.
in deciding to adopt the proposed standards, however, we must bear in mind that concern for the environment cannot mean ignoring economic factors, including the functioning of such an important sector for the european economy and labour market as the automotive industry.
i would point out that the accession of the eu to the convention entails the necessity for the member states to be bound by the energy charter treaty.
energy disputes will require the parties to address sensitive information, the disclosure of which could be contrary to the state interest.
the european union has set itself the goal of sustainable development.
insularity should therefore be recognised as a natural characteristic which negatively affects, directly and indirectly, the attractiveness of islands by creating obstacles to their sustainability performance.
the resolution calls, inter alia, on the commission to establish an 'eu strategic framework for islands' to bring together instruments that can have a significant territorial impact and on member states and regional and local authorities to play an important role in island development strategies based on a vertical approach covering all levels of government, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, in order to guarantee the sustainable development of islands in the eu.
the knowledge of local and regional authorities is particularly important for shaping future policies, as they are the closest to citizens and communities, the ones who best understand their needs and are able to support work at european level by exchanging views and proposing concrete solutions in the context of job creation, healthcare, the environment, energy and transport.
multi-level governance supports the eu's core policy objectives of economic growth, social progress and sustainable development, and strengthens the democratic dimension of the union and enhances the effectiveness of its policies.
‒ whereas widespread and systematic violations of human rights continue, in particular against minorities such as yazidis, christians, turkmen, shiites, shabaks, sabean mandeans, jarsani and kurds, and whereas daesh's violence is not limited to individuals but extends to the destruction of religious sites and archaeological sites; the resolution calls on all governments and public authorities, including the eu (in particular the council and the eeas) and its member states, the united nations, the un secretary-general, the un special representatives and special rapporteurs, the un high commissioner for human rights and all other international bodies and institutions, together with their leaders and representatives, to call the atrocities committed by the so-called isis/daesh against other peoples and religions and any other indigenous religious minorities 'crimes against humanity and the environment'.
the agreement was made 20 years ago, and the market and the environment for the mirroring are very different now than they were then, but it seems that such agreements are needed, and there is one more thing, and that is that this global protocol to combat trafficking will come into force 50 years after ratification, which is around 2020. if this contract expires this year, philip morris will not be required to make the so-called supplemental payments for the next few years, and the question is, is it worth it?
‒ sustainable employment growth in the member states and the reduction of the risk of unemployment is a goal that can only be fully achieved through close cooperation within the european union.
there was also a call for the transfer of labour taxation to taxes on environmental pollution.
one of the paragraphs also contains a demand for the transfer of labour taxation to taxes on environmental pollution.
without political will and commitment at national level, the required reforms to boost competitiveness, create new and stable jobs and achieve sustainable growth cannot be implemented.
these are just some of the conditions that must be met in order to unleash the entrepreneurial energy of the citizens of the union.
australia and new zealand are two countries that are fully governed by the rule of law and currently have strong environmental, human rights, social and labour rights.
we call on the commission to carry out as soon as possible a comprehensive assessment of the impact of possible agreements on sustainable development, also taking into account the commitment of all parties to negotiate in the most transparent way possible, respecting best practices and through a constant dialogue with the social partners and civil society.
these rules will be the first ever to combine animal welfare and public health in eu law and will be an important tool in the fight against antimicrobial resistance in humans, animals and the environment.
member states that join this voluntary aid scheme commit themselves to promoting healthier eating habits, local food, organic farming and the fight against food waste.
the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports aims to contribute to a more efficient, integrated and sustainable functioning of the ten-t network.
‒ for the third time in recent years, the commission has put forward a proposal for a regulation to contribute to a more efficient, integrated and sustainable functioning of the ten-t network by creating a framework to improve the performance of ports, their financing, management and competitiveness.
the proposal includes solutions such as imposing public service obligations on specific providers, differentiating charges for the use of port infrastructure according to commercial practices and environmental and energy efficiency.
moreover, eu action in the port sector should also take into account the local and regional dimension, as well as the specific hydrological and ecological conditions of marine areas.
ideologising the gender aspect does not help to solve existing problems, but creates a climate of absurdity and makes a mockery of the efforts of those communities that really fight against discrimination against women.
as a member of parliament from poland, i am familiar with the climate of legal absurdity that existed during the era of real socialism, when the communist authorities tried to regulate matters that did not require such regulation by means of manifestos or special resolutions.
parliament repeatedly called for the 2003 agreement to be renegotiated to take account of the new legislative environment created by the treaty of lisbon, to consolidate best practices and to bring the agreement up to date in line with the modern understanding of the better law-making agenda.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
major structural reforms are necessary to put eritrea on a sustainable development path.
under the nip for eritrea for the period 2016-2020, the intervention sectors are, amongst others, community-based energy projects as a prerequisite for increasing food security and agriculture productivity.
economic governance will also be addressed to create good conditions for sustainable economic growth.
when we talk about a veterinary medicinal product, i am thinking in particular of work that has involved a difficult and complex process, aimed not only at the broadly understood safety and protection of animals, as the report's content indicates in the first place, but also at the process of protecting human health, food safety and numerous aspects of environmental protection.
firstly, a medicine that is safe and effective for the animal, safe for the human being who uses the medicine for the animal, safe for the human being who consumes the food, or finally safe for the human being who is the patient, especially when we have to limit the growth of antibiotic resistance; also a medicine that is safe for the environment.
animal manure is a source of antimicrobial resistant bacteria in soil and water, posing a risk to the environment and to humans.
they are estimated to generate an additional gdp growth of 1,9% by 2020. moreover, building an ecosystem conducive to ict development, through investment in broadband networks, cloud computing and the 'internet of things', will also require the training of skilled workers with advanced skills, which will lead to the creation of a significant number of jobs in europe in the coming years.
it seems that when deciding to transfer development funds to eritrea, the commission forgot about this, focusing solely on supporting the energy sector.
the implementation of the subsidiarity principle is a good law for saving, and a good law for saving, without centralism, without arbitrariness, without excessive bureaucracy, means more energy and competitiveness in europe and in the member states.
in addition, an important aspect of the refit programme is the analysis of the commission's impact assessment, which should include an assessment of the social and environmental consequences of the lack of legislation and its impact on citizens' fundamental rights.
this will lead to further increases in farm size, scale and intensity, which means a move away from the european model of sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture.
illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, mining, energy drilling, pollution and marine litter all contribute to the damage done to marine habitats and ecosystems.
the report calls on the commission to work with stakeholders to support the new instrument and highlights the eu's important role in ensuring the sustainable management of marine resources on the high seas.
‒ the great wealth of man is the natural environment and all that mother nature gives us.
the un initiative is therefore very welcome and gives great importance to the issue of marine biodiversity and the creation of an instrument that will allow the control of marine resources.
the creation of an effective instrument that ensures fisheries that are sustainable for ecosystems, respect conservation periods and respect endangered species should therefore be encouraged.
in the absence of increased emphasis on strengthening external border controls, making returns and readmission of persons denied asylum more effective and combating trafficking in human beings, i could not support this report as the policy recommendations made do not represent a reasonable or sustainable solution to the current crisis in europe.
policy recommendations do not provide a sensible or sustainable solution to the current crisis in europe.
we need to create a better environment for entrepreneurship and job creation, including in a cross-border context.
moving to another country and being able to practise your profession in a new environment is a unique experience that can help young people become more open, flexible, mobile and independent.
it also plays a key role in strengthening and implementing the ideas of active citizenship, intercultural dialogue and working skills in a multicultural environment.
the report addresses a number of issues related to fisheries in the territorial waters of third countries, including the obligation to strengthen cooperation between individual rfmos and ensure consistency between their measures, the training of fisheries inspectors and crew members, the transparency of fisheries partnership agreements, the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and the promotion of social and environmental standards in the fisheries sector in the third country concerned.
i believe we are all keen to ensure as conducive a business environment as possible for european companies, but at the same time we expect these companies to pay their fair share of taxes in our countries.
it will enable the modernisation of the country in order to achieve a sustainable agricultural sector and the use of natural resources, such as water, in a more efficient and more focused way.
the next item is the report by sandra kalniete, drawn up on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu in a changing global environment a more connected, conflicted and complex world (hyperlink "http://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.
a more intensive dialogue should be established on infrastructure development, energy production and environmental protection.
and the third issue is the security of gas supply, and in particular the transparency of international agreements on the supply of energy resources.
it is subject to strict rules which allow its use as long as it does not have negative effects on human health and the environment.
it provides for a detailed safety and environmental impact assessment to be carried out by efsa and germany (acting as rapporteur).
in addition, the implementing measure provides that the substance poe-tallowamine (mixed with glyphosate to produce a pesticide) should be excluded from the production of plant protection products containing glyphosate and that a negative list of similar substances will be issued in july 2016. given that the document does not ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, does not respect the precautionary principle and is therefore not in line with the basic act, regulation 1107/2009, i voted against.
i believe that one of the most popular and effective ingredients used in the production of plant protection products should not be withdrawn from the market without scientifically sound arguments and solid evidence of its harmful effects on humans and the environment.
the union's objective should be to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, and to improve the functioning of the internal market, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour of a parliament resolution calling on the commission to take immediate action to achieve these objectives.
i am glad that parliament has proposed such a sound and appropriate analysis of the european union in a changing global environment, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
the eu must speak with one voice on issues that affect our common security, such as the migration crisis, the conflicts in ukraine and syria, and energy security.
‒ the report on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia underlines that the new eu strategy for central asia is adopted in the context of the growing importance of the region and the eu's increased engagement in neighbouring afghanistan, the extension of the european neighbourhood policy to the caspian sea region, the eu's continued support for the reform and modernisation of post-soviet societies, and the eu's energy security interests.
‒ in june 2007, the european union adopted a strategy for a new partnership with central asia in recognition of the region's growing importance for the eu, especially in the areas of security, stability and diversification of energy sources.
these are: democratisation, human rights, youth and education, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport, sustainable environment and water, common threats and challenges, intercultural dialogue.
despite the progress made in relations with the countries of central asia, there is a need to intensify cooperation, especially in the fields of trade and energy.
therefore, companies investing in these countries must be socially responsible and act in a way that supports sustainable economic growth and job creation, due to, among other things, the specificity of the conditions.
it is worth investing in regions where the potential to reduce poverty is highest, but without harming the environment.
‒ protecting against the unlawful acquisition, disclosure and use of trade secrets is crucial to ensuring that businesses have a fair business environment.
the creation of a common european framework for the protection of trade secrets in the form of directives is an important step towards building a secure environment for european companies, ensuring the protection of their intangible assets and know-how.
i also consider it extremely important to step up efforts to create and promote a tolerant and inclusive society, as well as to ensure the sustainability of the post-war reconciliation process.
‒ this report aims to make the link between social policy and energy policy, highlighting that the eu is moving away from the europe 2020 target of reducing poverty.
unfortunately, despite the seriousness of the problem, i could not support this report, which proposes to initiate debate in policy-making, public intervention and increased public spending, but does not present any sustainable and balanced solutions based on improved labour and education markets and better public services.
i agree with the rapporteur that there are links between social and energy policy.
increasing the energy efficiency of households, as well as the better use of modern and renewable energy sources, will help to reduce the level of energy poverty still experienced by many households in the union.
‒ this own-initiative report aims to link social policy and energy policy, while highlighting the eu's move away from the europe 2020 target of reducing poverty.
this report describes poverty and proposes to initiate debate in policy-making, public intervention and increased public spending, but fails to present any sustainable and balanced solutions based on improved labour and education markets and better public services.
‒ the report is a response to the commission communication 'a stronger role for the private sector in achieving sustainable and inclusive growth in developing countries' adopted on 13 may 2014. the document highlights the crucial role that the private sector can play in achieving the objectives of our development strategy, with the estimated annual needs in developing countries exceeding current spending by usd 2.4 billion.
the report focuses on potential public-private partnerships in areas ranging from infrastructure, energy and water to other sectors where public funds are proving insufficient, such as healthcare and education, on support for the local private sector in developing countries and on the extension of the european investment bank's mandate to provide loans to third countries and the pooling of eu financing instruments in general.
this technological revolution in the automotive industry has the potential to help solve many of the problems we face today in terms of mobility, environmental protection and safety.
although the error rate is not a clear indication of fraud or waste, it can also mean spending funds in a way that is not in accordance with the applicable rules, but despite this reservation, it is about €5 billion that is being spent in this way and unfortunately this amount is increasing year by year.
for the union, it also means faster transport of energy resources, security and less dependence on russia.
the development of the railway sector in the union is one of the conditions for sustainable development, economic and tourist recovery in many regions and improvement of the environment.
however, the railway sector continues to face challenges such as barriers to competition, discrimination and the lack of a liberalised, dynamic and entrepreneurial environment.
environmental concerns are raised, as are concerns about the development of the baltic sea economy and commitments to ukraine.
in this context, i would like to ask the commissioner and the european commission whether in line with the conclusions of the european council of december 2015 the commission has formally addressed the german authorities on the application of the third energy package to nord stream ii?
the commission acknowledges that the nord stram 2 construction project is not economically justified and that it is contrary to the union's energy objectives such as increasing security of supply or diversification.
has the commission - to repeat the question of the prime minister, professor buzka - made an official request to the german authorities regarding the application of the third energy package to nord stream 2?
the more one looks at the geopolitical circumstances or the rationale of the energy union, the more one sees the contradiction between the principles of diversification and independence from a monopolistic supplier and the nord stream 2 project.
all of us here, representing both the european parliament and the european commission, are aware that this project is not only an economic but above all a political project that affects the energy security of many european union countries, including poland.
because these are the real needs when it comes to energy infrastructure in the european union, as opposed to the additional transmission capacity in russia.
i also omit the issue of the legality and compliance of this project with european union law, international law, environmental law, etc.
because even if the investors comply with the required regulations, it is still a bad project because it is against the idea and the most important principles of the european union, including the energy union.
it goes far beyond the framework of central and eastern europe itself, and beyond strictly energy issues.
i therefore strongly support the european commission to thoroughly examine this project within its competence in terms of its compliance with both the energy union objectives and european law.
contrary to some opinions, the nord stream 2 gas pipeline is not a commercial venture – it is a purely political project hampering mutual trust in europe and weakening our energy security.
moreover, nord stream 2 would violate the key principle of the energy union – diversifying sources of energy.
there is no doubt that the planned construction of nord stream 2 is detrimental to energy security, but also to other vital interests of the countries of central and eastern europe.
third, the entire continent will become more dependent on russian gas, and this will happen shortly after the adoption of the so-called energy union, which assumes the diversification of energy sources in europe.
it is therefore clear that nord stream 2 is contrary to the adopted eu energy policy and, moreover, has a questionable economic justification, given that its first strand is only half-used.
not only does it threaten the bottom line of honest fishers and seafood traders, it also undermines the objectives of the cfp, the progress made by the sustainable fisheries, and it can allow illegal and unregulated fishing practices to go undetected.
i hope not, because it is important that we secure sustainable sources and that these sustainable sources provide the proper legal labelling.
therefore, this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (sfpa) will be a very good tool to do so, but i believe it will also benefit the european union as a whole.
the aim is also to enhance cooperation between the eu and liberia to promote a sustainable fisheries policy and a sound exploitation of fisheries resources in liberia’s fishing zone in the interest of both sides.
the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements between the european union and the republic of liberia and mauritania are acceptable and should be good agreements, because the very words and phrases partnership, sustainable fisheries, cooperation in combating iuu fishing, scientific cooperation, coherence of fisheries policy, synergy of action, non-discrimination between other fleets, constant monitoring indicate that the benefits are mutual and good for the protection of living resources.
every single voice was important because it gave us additional input to what exactly we want with these unique and sustainable agreements with these two countries.
‒ the agreement is the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia, which has a 570 km coastline along the atlantic ocean.
the commission carried out an ex-ante assessment in 2013 of a possible sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia.
the procedural document concluded that the union tuna fisheries sector has a strong interest in the fisheries in liberia and that the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement would help improve monitoring, control and surveillance and contribute to improving fisheries management in the region.
in line with the union's fisheries policy, the protocol will contribute to responsible fishing and sustainable management of fisheries resources, including greater transparency.
‒ this document focuses on the development needs and potential of mountain regions in the european union to become a source of jobs and sustainable growth.
mountain areas are attractive for tourism, but they are also often rich in natural resources, the exploitation of which can improve employment by creating new jobs, especially 'green' ones, which support sustainable development.
the wide variety of renewable energy sources can contribute to the achievement of the union's energy policy objectives.
only a coordinated, holistic approach to these regions can be essential to ensure that union funding is properly targeted towards achieving sustainable and inclusive growth.
similarly, the potential and importance of macro-regional strategies for the sustainable development of eu mountain regions with a strong cross-border cooperation dimension.
mountain regions require a special approach due to the difficult management conditions for agriculture, the higher costs of building and maintaining transport infrastructure, and the greater dependence on weather and climate change.
at the same time, these areas have specific potential for renewable energy sources such as wind, hydro and biomass.
the work on this subject should however not be stopped and sustainable and gradual development of safety measures could come up regularly on the commission agenda.
‒ the eu's regional policy aims to promote job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth and sustainable development.
therefore, constant work on the improvement of this policy is not only crucial but also necessary to keep eu cohesion policy harmonised with other eu policies as well as providing an appropriate, sustainable improvement in the flexibility of mechanisms to better react to local needs and more effectively coordinate the use of eu programmes for citizens.
our actions should therefore focus on supporting families in a responsible and sustainable way.
hydropower is a key renewable energy source and the hydroelectric sector is an important area within the european union.
this is in line with the aims of the energy union to ensure, inter alia, an integrated energy market where energy security is guaranteed.
no, there is good cooperation between dgs and cooperation between dg grow, the dg for energy and the dg for competition.
we have a high percentage of women educated at university in europe and this is a waste of talents and previous investments when they cannot work due to the lack of good conditions.
‒ in september 2015, the un general assembly adopted the new 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the sustainable development goals contained therein.
the objectives and tasks shall be geared to economic growth, social development and environmental protection.
the focus is on issues such as improving people's quality of life, social protection and the environment in which they live.
the joint draft resolution focuses on the issue of the eu's common position on the high level political forum on sustainable development (hlpf).
the adoption of the 2030 agenda is also a promise by world leaders to end extreme poverty, achieve sustainable development and ensure dignity and justice for all.
before the high-level political forum on sustainable development, the eu external affairs council should develop a common and coherent eu position on the follow-up and review of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2030 agenda because i believe that only through the use of regular review mechanisms can we achieve the sustainable development goals.
the 2030 agenda, agreed last autumn, is an ambitious project to eradicate poverty altogether by integrating economic, social and environmental sustainability.
this will contribute to increasing gender diversity in enterprises, which is sometimes a significant problem in the corporate environment.
and then it turns out that all of this is worthless, because there are better kinds of energy, and there are worse kinds of energy.
we also learn that access to energy is a social right, which means, in short, that without communism, there is no say in the european union.
there is no reason to think that man has a social right to energy, because if we continue down this path, we will soon come to the conclusion that man should have a guaranteed social access to women -- especially beautiful women -- and that would solve one very important social problem.
a lot of people have talked about the need to strengthen our approach to energy efficiency and end-use.
this is the number one problem in any energy issue.
secondly, the prosumer energy, you can't develop it without properly constructed power grids, smart meters, smart grids.
these are huge costs and member states have to think about how they are going to pay for them, because not all costs can be passed on to the energy companies.
and the third thing is very important: cheap, safe and clean energy for consumers requires the right conditions for energy companies.
it's about those who generate, transmit electricity, work on new production technologies, transmit, store energy and also transmit and produce gas.
without a well-developed market and without good energy companies, we cannot deal with energy poverty.
we certainly need a well-organised, well-designed system for energy consumers in europe.
nor should we confuse professional energy with individual energy, and the demands that 100% of energy, for example, come from green energy or distributed energy sources, are not only unrealistic, but if they were to be implemented, they would be fundamentally dangerous not only for the energy security, the economic security of the european union, but for the beneficiaries of this report, that is, for the citizens, for the consumers.
last december, i supported the directive drawn up by mr marek gróbarczyk as a balanced and serious proposal to show the commission and the council the best compromise, without giving in to unrealistic climate protection ambitions, in the hope that it would become the basis for developing more realistic legislative proposals.
the current energy policy - the exaggerated, scientifically insufficient so-called 'european climate policy' - needs to be reassessed and separated from the real energy policy.
a genuine energy union should lead to a change in the climate and energy package that would combat unfair competition between member states and lead to increased competitiveness in global markets.
i would like to reiterate that the priority of the energy union should be energy security, solidarity of supply and the fight against energy poverty while maintaining competitiveness on third markets, as well as the modernisation of infrastructure leading to maximised energy efficiency and transparency in energy price negotiations with third countries, and the use of local energy sources, including green coal technology.
the biggest benefit for citizens (and the eventual energy union) will be a complete shift away from the current eu ets to one that is less bureaucratically confusing and speculative than the current system.
to return to my previous speech, i am surprised that someone who considers himself a liberal would waste public money to talk such nonsense here, and has been for a long time, and i am a little ashamed of it, and i am sorry.
‒ this report is a response to the commission's communication on the implementation of the new energy contract, which is based on three pillars: saving consumers money and energy through better information; increasing consumer choice; and maintaining the highest level of consumer protection.
i think it's very important to create an energy system that is fair to consumers and helps protect the poor who use energy.
for example, i am a big supporter of the idea of a broad, non-binding definition of energy poverty, because any attempt to establish a central definition would be useless, because nations define energy needs or low-income thresholds differently.
it should also be noted that a large number of the provisions cited in the report already exist under the third energy package and therefore require better implementation rather than new provisions.
it stressed the need for better protection of eu consumers, especially energy consumers who have to pay high penalties for switching energy suppliers.
one way would be to develop a database of measures taken by different member states to prevent unfair practices by energy suppliers.
local authorities, national regulators and energy companies can play a key role in addressing this issue.
a common european approach is needed to find long-term solutions that benefit consumers and provide our industry with access to affordable energy.
‒ this report is a response to the commission's communication on the implementation of the new energy contract, which is based on three pillars: saving consumers money and energy through better information; increasing consumer choice; and maintaining the highest level of consumer protection.
the creation of an energy system that is fair to consumers and contributes to the protection of poor energy consumers should be encouraged.
for example, the idea of a broad and non-binding definition of energy poverty is a good one, but any attempt to create a central definition would be useless, as different nations define energy needs or low income thresholds.
it should also be noted that many of the provisions cited in the report already exist under the third energy package.
‒ consumers should have a greater say in the energy market.
it is appropriate to introduce better tools for comparing the offers of energy suppliers on the market and to ensure a transparent contract for switching.
we must prevent citizens from being forced to give up energy because of lower incomes.
energy poverty is the result of incorrect regulation that does not take into account the financial situation of households.
all consumers should be provided with comprehensive information on the proposed energy offers so that they are not subject to additional charges in the event of withdrawal.
i believe that the introduction of innovative business models will make it easier for consumers to use energy efficiently.
greater efficiency and flexibility in energy production and consumption are essential if europe is to be able to produce the amount of energy needed to maintain a constant level of household supply.
of course, when designing the shape of the european energy market, we must take into account the differences between member states, especially in the energy mix.
we cannot accept any solution which discriminates against countries such as poland, for whom coal is the main source of energy.
the freedom of choice of the consumer's energy supplier must entail real price differences and the possibility of making an informed choice, for which the possibility of comparing the offers of all operators is essential.
more attention and resources should be devoted to supporting individual forms of energy production that significantly reduce costs and improve resource efficiency.
the problems arising from widespread stereotypes about women will have a negative impact on the functioning of the sustainable economic process.
i support the report by mr preda, which calls for greater involvement of the european parliament in development policy, with particular emphasis on migration, trade and finance, the environment, agriculture and international cooperation, both within the member states and with the united states and the bric countries.
23 percent of the country's land area is claimed and therefore belarus has for years pursued a very cautious energy policy, avoiding involvement in nuclear power plant projects.
geostrategic energy games conducted within the framework of the economic union by the russian federation.
this is not the place to discuss the energy structure of europe, the desired energy structure of europe, how much nuclear energy is worth.
it is worth listening to the voices of those people who, when the chernobyl disaster happened, lived on the wrong side of the iron curtain, who fought against the communist dictatorship and know what it means to have no respect for people, no respect for the environment.
this investment, even in environmental terms, raises a lot of questions.
russia is subordinating energy goals to political goals.
i don't care where he sells it, or if he sells it, or how much he sells the surplus energy for.
i'm very interested in what happens to the waste, whether it has any idea, whether it's under proper control.
by 2004, 180 parties (including the european community) had signed the convention, with the provisions formally entering into force in february 2005. the main objective of the convention is to protect parties from the health, social, environmental and economic consequences of smoking and inhaling tobacco smoke.
common technical requirements, such as those contained in the unece framework regulations for the automotive and related sectors, contribute to reducing development costs and production and certification costs, as well as to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures and to promoting a transparent, efficient and pro-competitive business environment.
taking into account that common technical requirements such as those contained in the unece framework regulations for the automotive and related sectors contribute to reducing development costs and production and certification costs, as well as to avoiding duplication of administrative procedures and to promoting a transparent, efficient and pro-competitive economic environment, while developing and ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection, i am in favour of the ep's consent to the conclusion of this agreement.
international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent and efficient business environment by developing and ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection.
by 2004, 180 parties (including the european community) had signed the convention, with the provisions formally entering into force in february 2005. the main objective of the convention is to protect parties from the health, social, environmental and economic consequences of smoking and inhaling tobacco smoke.
i therefore support the approximation of the pcd and its improved version in the light of the recently adopted sustainable development goals, but at the same time i stress that we must be careful that the new regulation does not become an additional regulatory tool and a burden for citizens and businesses.
i am convinced that this is a necessary condition for ensuring sustainable development.
‒ i voted against paragraph 30 of the report on policy coherence for development, because it provides for the financing of development aid from carbon taxes and levies on the exploitation of natural resources.
understanding the need to promote clean environment and alternative energy sources and to seek new sources of financing for the necessary development aid, it is unacceptable to place an excessive burden on eu countries in this regard, as this puts european countries in a low competitive position vis-à-vis economies that do not have such regulations and burdens or have them at a lower level.
paragraph 30 is particularly unfavourable for poland, which bases its energy policy on coal and its extraction from domestic resources.
therefore, the proposals contained in paragraph 30, neutral for countries using nuclear energy and sounding pro-environmental, the polish delegation always rejects.
it also aims to create a business-friendly environment in the alliance countries through systemic reforms in infrastructure, taxation, good governance, land and trade policies.
africa is a particularly challenging region because of its climate, limited water resources and education.
unlike europe, whose fertile soils and climate give us a choice, africa - afflicted by drought, high soil salinity, diversity and pest abundance - has very little agricultural production capacity without gmos.
it also aims to create a business-friendly environment in the alliance countries through systemic reforms in infrastructure, taxation, good governance, land and trade policies.
serious abuses in the sale of products below their cost of production are a threat to the functioning of a sustainable trade policy in the european union.
‒ reduced land availability, environmental degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand, and unprecedented pests and diseases are putting significant pressure on european raw material producers.
to meet these challenges, the eu should become a world leader in technology, innovation and sustainability in agriculture.
i believe that creating a risk-based and innovation-friendly regulatory environment, based on scientific evidence, and ensuring that eu rules do not become an obstacle to innovation, is crucial for sustainable and competitive eu agricultural production on the world market.
‒ i voted against the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the european union, because it contains many inaccuracies and shortcomings.
promoting sustainable development and innovation in agriculture, as well as the development of agricultural technologies, is of course important and can have a significant impact on the further development of agriculture.
these 'technologies' have not been studied for agricultural safety and environmental protection, and the use of any 'technology' without adequate research and analysis of its impact on agricultural production and the environment can be tragic and irreversible.
the world's growing population, its aging population, environmental degradation, and the scarcity of fresh water are all issues that will soon be faced.
the answer to these challenges is new production techniques, innovative solutions that allow for intensive, modern and sustainable production.
innovative technologies will help both small and large farms, organic and conventional, to achieve sustainable development and to provide food to needy consumers outside europe.
‒ reduced land availability, environmental loss and degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand, and unprecedented pests and diseases are putting significant pressure on european raw material producers and the environment.
to meet these challenges, the eu should become a world leader in technology, innovation and sustainability in agriculture, but european agriculture still lags behind many of the union's international competitors.
the rapporteur draws attention to the importance of precision agriculture, which can bring environmental benefits, rationalise the use of machinery and reduce the use of pesticides, fertilisers and water.
the world's population is growing steadily - forecasts say we'll be close to 10 billion in 2050 - and at the same time, the amount of arable land on earth is running out, and recently, it's been shrinking due to increasing pollution, deforestation, desertification and intensive urbanization.
other challenges include increasing water scarcity, the threat of plant and animal disease outbreaks, and the unpredictable effects of climate change.
action is therefore needed to develop more sustainable agriculture based on respect for the environment and local communities.
meeting the challenge of ensuring food security by increasing production without exacerbating existing environmental problems is a very difficult task.
innovation in agricultural technology is key to tackling some of the biggest challenges facing agriculture today, in view of climate change, the increase in food demand due to the world's growing population, and environmental threats.
it is under pressure from a variety of challenges, including climate change and evolving socio-economic dynamics.
european agriculture must therefore produce enough food, while respecting the environment, consumer safety and supporting farmers.
i fully agree with the report's view that agriculture is part of the solution - not part of the problem - to tackle major challenges such as climate change, air and water pollution and animal welfare.
new solutions must be sought that not only meet the increased demand for food in the future, but also are sustainable enough not to cause further environmental degradation.
‒ the agricultural sector today faces demand from a rapidly growing population and is under pressure from a variety of challenges, including climate change and evolving socio-economic dynamics.
european agriculture must therefore produce enough food, while respecting the environment, consumer safety and supporting farmers.
i agree with the view expressed in the report that agriculture is part of the solution - not part of the problem - when it comes to tackling major challenges such as climate change, air and water pollution and animal welfare.
we must do everything we can to increase the quantity of high-quality agricultural products, ensuring food security for all, while effectively tackling climate change.
it is also important to create the right climate and framework for lifelong learning, as its potential is still not fully exploited in many member states.
we also need continuously updated skill sets for the labour market, defined and developed in students in close cooperation with the business environment.
there's agriculture, and infrastructure, and communications, and energy, but of course there's also educational tasks and scientific tasks.
these are very different: they are both climate-related, i.e.
those caused by man with full premeditation, as well as special events and failures, for example in the energy sector.
it will make us more interdependent, it will make us less safe, it will make us more likely to waste the potential of our industry, it will make us more likely to have a brain drain.
central and eastern europe is unfortunately a white spot in this respect, despite its investment lag and huge needs in infrastructure, energy and innovation.
however, none of the many projects in the energy sector received support.
this goal was to improve the investment climate in europe in general.
to what extent have we managed to improve the investment environment and the regulatory framework in the eu member states in order to encourage autonomous private investment to take place?
but the other thing is the regulatory framework, to what extent we have managed to make the environment more conducive to business, and to what extent we have managed to convince private business to start investment because the prospects for growth in europe have improved.
its task is to create a friendly environment for small and medium-sized enterprises.
the convention also introduces a new system of liability and compensation that not only covers damage caused by pollution from ships but also takes account of the risk of fire and explosion, including loss of life or personal injury and loss of or damage to property.
‒ the main objective of the sns convention is to enable international cooperation to protect the marine environment from harmful and hazardous substances.
the implementation of its provisions is in the interest of both the maritime economy (and tourism) and the people living in the coastal zone, as their losses and gains from pollution will be compensated.
however, there is a risk that the shipping sector will be subject to two different systems at once, one eu and the other international, which could result in unequal treatment of pollution victims.
‒ the main objective of the sns convention is to enable international cooperation to protect the marine environment from harmful and hazardous substances.
the implementation of its provisions is in the interest of both the maritime economy (and tourism) and the people living in the coastal zone, as their losses and gains from pollution will be compensated.
however, there is a risk that the shipping sector will be subject to two different systems at once, one eu and the other international, which could result in unequal treatment of pollution victims.
calls on the government to implement all core international conventions related to human and labour rights, the environment and good governance.
it also encourages the philippines to further improve the investment climate and welcomes the 2015 agreement to open negotiations on an eu-philippines free trade agreement.
tunisia is one of the key elements of europe's immediate international environment.
data from earth observation satellites are helping to manage disasters, humanitarian missions, refugee relief, energy security and food security more effectively.
i fully share the objectives of protecting human health and the environment and ensuring a high level of protection, but i do not support this resolution and question the validity of the arbitrary deadline for setting these criteria.
‒ genetically modified food should be subject to strict controls on its impact on human health and the environment.
‒ in the resolution, the opponents claim that the implementing decision on the genetically modified carnation is incompatible with the health and environmental protection objectives of directive 2001/18/ec and therefore constitutes an overrun of implementing powers.
the resolution was prompted by concerns about the effects of using this ornamental plant in the catering industry, which cannot be excluded, and the environmental effects of marketing by composting waste after use of the product.
in view of the potential, unrecognised or unconfirmed risks that the use of gmos may pose to the environment and to human consumption, i believe that adequate control and quality control of the production and use of products, as well as clear labelling of products so that consumers have full and fair information about the product, are better than a ban on marketing.
prohibitions are easily circumvented and, with the obvious benefits of using gmos, there is a risk that the production and sale of genetically engineered agricultural products will be moved into a grey area, which would remove this production from the scrutiny and visibility of the market and thus create much more real risks to human health and the environment.
‒ the genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus) requires further, in-depth research, particularly on its environmental impact.
the commission should therefore be firmly committed to the protection of health and the environment as provided for in directive 2001/18/ec.
we can't waste it.
the proposal which we are addressing today meets the immediate efficiency and performance-related needs of the general court, and going beyond it seeks to strengthen the effectiveness of the european court system as a whole in a sustainable manner.
the next item is the debate on the following oral questions to the council by renate sommer, renata briano, julie girling, frédérique ries, stefana ecka, linné engström, marco affronte, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on japan's decision to resume whaling for the 2015-2016 season (o-000058/2016 - b8-0702/2016) and to the commission by renate sommer, renata girano, julie briling, julie girling, frédérique ries, frédérique ecka, linné ries, marco affronte, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on japan's decision to resume whaling for the 2015-2016 season (o-000059/2016 - b8-0703/2016).
every once in a while we invite private companies to our dialogue just to hear what they are saying and what they are expecting from the eu, what they are expecting from china and what the priorities the private sector is asking of us are in order to improve the business environment.
just a couple of months ago we had a similar event in ankara and istanbul where turkey’s and the eu’s business delegations met each other and they also gave us ideas about what more the two parties could do in order to improve the business environment on both sides.
rail transport is the perfect answer to the need to find an economic and energy-efficient means of transporting goods and passengers, including on an intercontinental scale.
we did it in the trust that the provisions included would be enough to uphold sustainable fisheries in the baltic sea.
parliament has shown its commitment to sustainable fishing in the eu and to the future of the industry, and i must ask the commission and the council to do the same.
in the end, this plan will ensure that fishing activities in the baltic are conducted in a sustainable, reasonable and economically viable way, which will not put unnecessary strain on the environment – and now we will closely monitor the implementation of the plan.
management must be sustainable and based on sound scientific knowledge.
cod, herring and sprat are the main species caught in the wild and are essential elements of the baltic sea ecosystem.
it is necessary to increase their transparency and to take action to minimise their impact on the baltic marine environment.
this seems to be a given, but a given that is often forgotten today, is that all of these data show the importance of the home environment for the development of a child's basic skills, and then the communication between school and parents, which is also important in such things as shaping civic attitudes and preventing radicalization.
climate change is a global problem, and that's the way we should look at it.
i think that the current raising of climate targets by the european union and the setting of new binding targets is counterproductive.
we should not create internal tensions over our climate goals, which are already the most ambitious in the world.
one thing about renewable energy.
there are indeed countries that do not give the right amount of attention to renewable energy aid, to support and also to pro-consumer energy.
the average, any person working in the energy industry has a lot more knowledge than we do.
what we're doing is hurting the energy industry.
i'll say it again: democratically we can control the head of the meerkat in the congo, maybe we can, but hands off the energy industry.
an important field like energy cannot be democratically controlled because politicians and bureaucrats have no idea how it really works.
and i also think that the european union should be destroyed because it's doing bad things to the energy industry.
this solution requires more gas supplies to the eu market, and while it significantly reduces co2 emissions, it does not eliminate them.
however, there is insufficient progress in the better use of renewable energy sources in stand-alone heating and cooling systems.
the potential of geothermal energy and heat pumps is huge, but i believe it is under-exploited and requires more intensive research to reduce the costs of these technologies.
the green revolution is for my country, for poland, the elimination of coal and the transition to renewable energy sources.
just as i oppose the whole energy and climate package and the green revolution served up by the eu bureaucracy.
85% of poland's energy is produced from coal.
eu greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% between 1990 and 2014. at the same time, eu gdp grew by 46%.
with less and less of a burden on the climate, businesses and citizens achieve greater economic growth, create more jobs and generate more tax revenue.
the european union is on track to meet its 2020 target of 20% less co2 emissions.
this shows that there is no need for a drastic tightening of climate policy, which is proving to be an obstacle to the eu's reindustrialisation.
the bureaucratic reporting of energy and the high energy prices for medium-sized businesses and private households are a cause for concern.
the energy efficiency directive should play a key role in eu energy policy.
this shows the strength of the market and the ability of member states to shape their own energy policies.
the european union should not be tempted to promote climate and energy policy at the expense of industrial policy.
the european union has set a target of 20% renewable energy in relation to total energy consumption by 2020. i believe that those countries that have not yet achieved the goal set by europe should focus fully on the full implementation of the eu's recommended rules in order to achieve the intended results.
the priority is to attract investors to the renewable energy market.
i think the market should have a readily available support system for renewable fuel producers, because that will maximize the benefits.
they should have more opportunities to produce and use energy themselves.
the transition from oligopolistic to more democratic policies will be a more beneficial change in terms of market integration, which will in turn contribute to the development of renewable energy and cost reductions.
the eu's european neighbourhood policy offers its neighbours the possibility of establishing privileged bilateral relations based on mutual respect for shared values such as democracy and human rights, the rule of law, the principles of good governance, the law of the market economy and sustainable development.
the plan should ensure the sustainable exploitation of those resources and the stability of fishing opportunities and thus the stability of the livelihood of fishermen.
at the same time, this management is based on the most up-to-date scientific advice on the status of the stocks covered by the plan, interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries.
it should also be noted that the plan is the first of its kind in the highly sensitive baltic sea ecosystem.
in view of the above and its consequences for the baltic sea ecosystem, i voted in favour of the proposal.
the proposed plan will ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea, which will directly translate into a stable livelihood for fishermen.
the plan should ensure the sustainable exploitation of those resources and the stability of fishing opportunities and thus the stability of the livelihood of fishermen.
at the same time, this management is based on the most up-to-date scientific advice on the status of the stocks covered by the plan, interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries.
the plan is the first of its kind in the highly sensitive baltic sea ecosystem.
management is to be based on the most up-to-date scientific data on the state of fish stocks, interactions between species and any other aspects of the ecosystem and fisheries.
the new law is designed to ensure balanced and sustainable exploitation of the resources and to guarantee stable fishing opportunities and livelihoods for fishermen.
the plan will also ensure that fishing activities in the baltic are sustainable, sensible and, above all, economically viable, without imposing too much pressure on the environment.
‒ the 2009 renewable energy directive requires progress reports every two years.
the european commission's report found that 25 member states are on track to meet binding renewable energy targets, and five have already met or are about to meet their targets.
the ini report, while stating that the definition of member states' energy mix is a national competence, also made several references to binding national targets and taxation, criticised the lack of country-specific recommendations, called for a greater role for the commission in monitoring member states' actions by increasing its supervisory capacity and proposed an increase in the eu's renewable energy targets.
‒ the progress report on the renewable energy directive adopted in 2009 and currently under debate is a mid-term review of the directive and contains a preliminary assessment of the directive under refit.
the european commission's report found that 25 member states are on track to meet binding renewable energy targets, and five have already met or are about to meet their targets.
the ini report, while stating that the definition of member states' energy mix is a national competence, also made several references to binding national targets and taxation, criticised the lack of country-specific recommendations, called for a greater role for the commission in monitoring member states' actions by increasing the scrutiny capacity, and proposed to increase the eu's targets for renewable energy.
‒ agriculture is a special sector, not only because of its strategic importance in producing and delivering food to the market, but also because it is a very important supplier of raw materials to industry and, increasingly, to the energy sector.
this issue is of particular importance in the context of the union's efforts to reduce its energy dependence, which is 50% imported.
the eu is now the world's largest energy importer, with energy-related expenditure of around eur 400 billion per year.
moreover, in the context of climate challenges, agriculture and forestry are sectors with a huge natural potential to capture co2 from the air, in addition to carbon dioxide emissions from production processes, which should be taken into account when making the relevant conversions.
the possibility of selling surplus energy to the electricity grid and designing a system that would buy energy from such sources in the first place could be of great importance for the development of rural areas now and in the future.
a stable mechanism for individual energy producers providing price predictability in the longer term is also likely to be necessary for the proper development of the sector of such energy.
‒ the 2009 renewable energy directive sets a target of 20% of renewable energy in final energy consumption by 2020 and allows member states to decide how they promote renewable energy in their own country.
according to the commission's report, most member states are on track to meet the 2009 target and more than 15% of energy in the eu is already produced from renewable sources.
the european parliament report noted that the union needs a coherent long-term strategy to secure future investment in renewable energy.
‒ the european union needs to rethink its energy policy.
renewable energy is a good way to diversify energy sources.
however, it is not possible to impose regulations on all member states which will interfere with their energy basket.
we voted against both energy reports and it is a source of outrage that a bunch of dilettantes and ignoramuses are taking the floor and making decisions on such vital matters.
not only do i think the european union must be destroyed, but i think those who are so propagandistic about this fight against global warming, who are destroying european energy, should, after europe is liberated from the occupation of the union, be brought to justice, be actually convicted for what they have done to this once leading region in the world.
‒ in the eu, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% between 1990 and 2014. at the same time, eu gdp grew by 46%.
with less and less of a burden on the climate, businesses and citizens achieve greater economic growth, create more jobs and generate more tax revenue.
although i am able to support these declarations, i voted against the report because of the repeated calls for binding energy efficiency targets at eu and national level.
i would like to point out that poland has agreed to a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020. but i think that when the polish president signed this political goal, he didn't know how this efficiency would be counted.
per capita energy use in poland is among the lowest in the eu.
it is well known that the prosperity of eu countries is proportional to their per capita energy use.
the reduction of energy use beyond 2030 as an efficiency indicator could only be attributed to the then existing and unchanging economy.
‒ in the eu, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% between 1990 and 2014. at the same time, eu gdp grew by 46%.
with less and less of a burden on the climate, businesses and citizens achieve greater economic growth, create more jobs and generate more tax revenue.
unfortunately, there are repeated calls for binding energy efficiency targets at eu and national level.
‒ improving energy efficiency by 20% by 2020 is one of the eu's key energy policy objectives.
action in this area is important because of the economic cost of energy production, environmental and trade issues (half of the eu's energy needs come from imports).
developing energy efficiency schemes stimulates the search for new and innovative solutions, which in turn stimulates the european labour market and brings climate and environmental benefits.
this requires investments to modernise existing buildings and incentives to increase energy savings in heating and cooling systems.
improving energy efficiency should provide an attractive opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises to increase their competitiveness by reducing their expenditure on different energy sources.
in a social context, better use of energy resources and the provision of energy at reasonable prices are key elements in the fight against energy poverty in the eu.
however, it should be borne in mind that energy efficiency improvements are intended to reduce energy consumption while maintaining living and productive standards, and are not intended to be a pretext for wasting energy.
‒ consumers must be prepared for huge increases in energy prices if the union takes the fast track suggested by the left-wing political groups in the european parliament on energy efficiency policy.
the 40% energy savings that these parties are hoping for are extremely expensive and difficult to achieve in a short time.
i am very much in favour of a policy of greater energy efficiency, but it should be a policy that motivates energy efficiency.
however, i am against a ban on energy use in general, which would be the case if we blindly followed the unreal transcripts of the parliament's report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
in addition, in order to achieve greater energy efficiency, in addition to bans and prohibitions, better coordination and cooperation between member states is needed.
there are also many objections to particular eu policies, such as the extremely restrictive climate policy or the expansive agricultural policy.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on: report by ms eleonora forenza on behalf of the committee on international trade on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility (2015/2038 ((ini)) (a8-0217/2016) and report by ms tiziana beghin on behalf of the committee on international trade on a new forward-looking and innovative future strategy for trade and investment (2015/2105 ((ini)) (a8-0220/2016).
secondly, i would argue, given what was said this morning here by you and by prime minister rutte, that indeed it cannot be business usual, but at the same time, what was agreed between the three institutions on the priorities of the commission is a good basis for not continuing with business as usual but rather doing the things we all agreed in the three institutions should be our priorities: getting the internal market to function better, advancing on the digital single market, doing more and better regulation, making sure the energy union gets going and making sure we get the issue of migration under control in a sustainable way.
the priorities of the dutch presidency included boosting eu innovation, focusing on growth and jobs, a comprehensive approach to migration and border security, and a unified approach to climate change and sustainable development.
these machines include lawnmowers, sprinklers, railway locomotives and inland waterway vessels, and account for around 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of particulate matter pollution in the eu.
the agreement tightens the existing limit conditions for these emissions, introduces higher power categories for engines for low-cost mobile machinery covered by the regulation and generally aligns the limit conditions to those in the us and japanese markets, where these values are currently more stringent than in the eu.
the purpose of this proposal is to protect the environment and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market by introducing emission limits and type-approval for internal combustion engines intended for low-cost mobile machinery, i.e.
the agreement tightens the current limit conditions for these emissions, giving it the potential to deliver significant benefits by reducing emissions to the environment.
these machines include lawnmowers, sprinklers, railway locomotives and inland waterway vessels, and account for around 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of particulate matter pollution in the eu.
the agreement tightens the existing limit conditions for these emissions, introduces higher power categories for engines for low-cost mobile machinery covered by the regulation and generally aligns the limit conditions to those in the us and japanese markets, where these values are currently more stringent than in the eu.
the agreement is a good example of better law-making in action, reflecting the principle of thinking small, while ensuring that the rules are fit for purpose from both an environmental and an economic point of view.
i think that the differences in emissions should be adjusted on an ongoing basis.
in addition, in line with the european union's air quality policy, this will have the effect of gradually reducing emissions from new engines entering the market and thus eventually replacing older engines that are more polluting, thus contributing to the protection of health and the environment.
‒ in 2010, the european parliament adopted resolutions on human rights and social and environmental standards in international trade agreements, as well as on international trade policy in the context of the urgent needs of climate change and on corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements.
in these resolutions, parliament called for the future eu trade strategy to become an instrument for more responsible fair trade, which can guarantee the effective integration and implementation of social and environmental standards.
this is why it is so important to shape trade and investment agreements in such a way that they are a tool to strengthen sustainable development, safeguard human rights, labour standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
these two european agencies, which control fisheries and maritime safety, were supposed to ensure a uniform and effective level of safety at sea in the european union, prevent pollution, respond to threats from oil and gas installations, ensure sustainable fisheries, protect all living resources, protect fishermen, etc.
sixth, we are facing challenges that are important for all member states and citizens, such as energy security, the creation of the energy union, the digital economy, and the work already under way on the circular economy and the implementation of the bioeconomy.
this will provide an opportunity to further promote cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links and to enhance people-to-people and sectoral cooperation, complementing the strengthening of political ties within the eastern partnership.
i have traditionally supported closer ties between the eu and third countries, including azerbaijan, especially in terms of enhancing the eu's energy security.
azerbaijan is an important partner for the eu in the energy sector and the eu-azerbaijan agreement serves to enhance bilateral cooperation within the eastern partnership.
‒ the good relations between the european union and azerbaijan started with the signing of the partnership and cooperation agreement on 1 july 1999. azerbaijan is an important partner in many areas, but above all it plays a significant role in the energy sector.
the proposed agreement recognises the importance of cooperation in the energy sector and raises hopes for the cooperation needed in this area, and i therefore voted in favour of the agreement.
‒ this regulation establishes a process and a timetable for the return to the original eu energy label ag scale (generally within 5 years).
the regulation also provides for cases where a product will need to be rescaled in the future, for example when:• 25% of products sold in the eu fall into the top energy efficiency class a; or• 50% of products sold in the eu fall into the top two energy efficiency classes a + b. the planned expiry date of the rescaled labels is at least 10 years, which is intended to reduce the burden on businesses.
there is no doubt that much has changed within the union itself and in its international environment since the 2014-2020 mff was agreed at the end of 2013. i would mention the migration crisis, the russian embargo and the crisis in the agricultural sector, and brexit, which will also have significant financial consequences for the eu budget.
i agree with the previous speakers that strengthening synergies can contribute to greater innovation, competitiveness and smart and sustainable growth.
i would stress that ensuring full coherence and synergies between all the union instruments mentioned above is crucial to achieving the strategic objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive development and avoiding duplication of effort, while complementing national and regional funds and programmes.
i believe that efforts to achieve the energy union must be stepped up to ensure energy security and affordable and sustainable energy for citizens and businesses.
the assessment of the economic, political and environmental situation has led to the conclusion that there are grounds for considering belarus as a country eligible for eib financing under the union guarantees, which would also be the practical effect of the application of the delegated act.
secondly, we are all of course convinced that europe's security is energy security, cyber security, security linked to financial, economic and social conditions.
there can be no sustainable peace if we do not mend the wounds of communities and societies.
thus, to help them effectively and effectively, we must simultaneously mold their consciences and the attitudes of the environment in which they live.
i agree that accessibility is as important in the physical environment as it is in information and communication technologies.
the objector justifies it as being incompatible with the objectives of the basic act, arguing that statements concerning alertness and concentration cannot be made to children, including adolescents, stressing that adolescents are the largest group of consumers of energy drinks.
furthermore, the resolution states that in the absence of the nutritional profiles that the commission was required to establish under the food claims regulation (1924/2006), the claims on caffeine can be used for energy drinks that have a higher sugar content.
contrary to what the text says, this measure applies to all products containing caffeine, not just energy drinks.
energy drinks account for only 1% of the total eu soft drink market, and calories from all drinks account for only 3% of all calories consumed in the eu.
experience with caffeine use may give the illusion that the consumption of caffeine and caffeine-containing products (including energy drinks) is good for health.
in the current climate, we need the commission's efficiency and determination to carry out its core tasks more than ever before.
heating and cooling accounts for about 40% of the total primary energy, which is a major energy problem, and for about 50% of the total useful energy in the form of heat.
while electricity generation can be standardised in the single energy market, heating and cooling require local solutions.
however, the dependence of heating and cooling on the energy market is increasing, which may, for example, use cogeneration at local level for both electricity and heating or cooling.
the diversity of the needs of the union's citizens for thermal comfort is demonstrated by the fact that the annual energy consumption per square metre of heated area varies in the member states from around 60 to even 300 kwh.
the greatest potential for thermal energy efficiency lies in the thermal retrofitting of around two thirds of the so-called old material of residential, public and commercial buildings, as the simplest, fastest way to make the most efficient use of energy, reduce co2 emissions and create many jobs.
it is essential to phase out outdated small, non-ecological district heating and switch to high-efficiency cogeneration systems.
the agglomeration of this region of europe is characterised by low emissions, i.e.
emissions into the atmosphere of partially flared pyrolitic organic gases, including aromatic hydrocarbons and nitrogen and soot oxides, as well as fly ash.
in the southern european member states, seasonal cooling is a growing problem due to climate warming, with around 5% of the total energy used for heating and cooling.
it requires the urgent development of innovative research and industry-wide development of new thermal insulation materials and sustainable green heating and cooling technologies, with a particular focus on solar panels and reverse heat pumps.
in the future, the thermal comfort of the inhabitants of the european union will depend primarily on zero-emission thermal retrofitting and the use of renewable energy sources that are optimal for the entire climate zone.
the priorities are well known, but they must also be financed and implemented as a matter of priority, although the hierarchy of priority varies from one member state to another, so as to ensure that the solutions we have found are optimized and that we can combat energy poverty.
from the ecr group's perspective, there are many positive elements to the report, most notably the call for the commercialisation of renewable energy sources and, in the long term, the end of their subsidisation.
however, the pursuit of a common electricity market should not be used as a pretext for the union to assume responsibility for shaping national energy mix.
the choice of energy sources must remain the responsibility of the eu countries.
moreover, power markets provide the necessary support for renewable sources (renewable energy) which will have to be covered by traditional forms of energy production for a long time to come.
as i said, i think that over the very long term the energy basket is currently a member state competence and member states should be able to decide for themselves how they will achieve the targets we set for ourselves in terms of renewable energy and other such issues.
but on the issue of heating and cooling, i have to admit that, in fact, when it comes to the paris issue of protecting our climate, which is cop 21, i think the biggest reserves (although it's probably unmeasurable because it's not in the ets) are in the thermal retrofitting of buildings, which is two-thirds.
and i have to say one more thing, also in terms of renewable energy, the fastest way to get it in and use it is in the thermal upgrading of buildings, by heating buildings, but we need new solutions, further technical solutions.
and i have to say that there are renewable energies, like geothermal energy, like heat pump energy, and that's also something that we have to focus on, because that's the future in the context of the future industrialization, and we have to make that proposal.
from adapting to climate change, supporting research and innovation, to the increase in cooperation between cities and regions on various issues, it is in this case important to emphasise these positive outcomes.
the expansion of etc in, for instance, education, culture, energy and mobility is on the basis of the report, and the results of this report, recommended.
the trust fund supports programmes aiming at better migration management, including affording international protection, offering long-term solutions to displaced people and facilitating the safe, and also dignified and sustainable, return of migrants.
this is in line with the united nations’ 2030 agenda for sustainable development and these are clearly development objectives.
the final outcome was that customers lost trust in the car manufacturer and consumers suffered from increased air pollution.
now we should focus on the legislative work and finalise the third and fourth real driving emissions packages.
europe 2020 is the eu's strategy for growth up to 2020. in a changing world, we want the eu to become a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy.
the union wants to achieve five ambitious targets by 2020 related to employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and climate/energy.
countries that cooperate in border areas are better able to address environmental challenges.
the same goes for the sea and water pollution control.
because of the importance of the subject and its impact on the environment and therefore on the health and lives of eu citizens, i supported this report.
‒ the work of the commission of inquiry, which aims to investigate allegations of breaches or maladministration in the application of european union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector, is valuable from the point of view of the proper management of climate policy and the automotive industry.
mr brincat is qualified to hold this position (he graduated from the london institute of banking and subsequently joined the institute) and has a very extensive professional experience, having served as minister for ecological development, environment and climate change (march 2013 to april 2016), minister for finance and trade (march 1997 to september 1998), minister for trade (october 1996 to march 1997), chairman of the national audit office (march 1999 to february 2003), chairman of the public accounts committee of the house of representatives (from 1998 to 2003).
the collection and submission of data is intended to monitor the internal energy market and the effects of various energy policies, such as the promotion of renewable energy sources.
gas and electricity price statistics are required to monitor the internal energy market and the effects of various energy policies, such as the promotion of renewable energy sources.
in the context of the european union strategy, the commission has committed to reporting on energy costs and prices every two years, starting in 2016. the commission's preliminary proposal was presented after extensive consultations and in agreement with the member states and the national regulatory authorities and no significant differences in the issues were identified between the positions of the parliament and the council.
‒ collecting data on energy and gas prices is important for gaining knowledge about the market.
up-to-date, reliable and harmonised data are essential for the efficient monitoring of the energy market of the member states and for shaping energy policy.
until now, this costing function has only been available to industrial customers in the eu, but now it is to be made generally available so that every eu citizen has access to reliable and comparable gas and energy prices.
the regulation does not harmonise the structure of gas and energy prices in the eu, but only collects data for statistical purposes and to ensure price transparency.
i do not think it is appropriate to consolidate the european approach to energy security and to strengthen regional cooperation on energy policy, in particular in investments in new power generation facilities, interconnectors and support systems and in the integration of renewable energy into the european internal market.
‒ the resolution on the structure of the energy market is not an attractive project from the point of view of the polish market and polish resources.
reducing the production and consumption of fossil fuels in order to increase the role of renewable energy is possible for countries that have reached a high level of economic development.
the creation of a european electricity market to guarantee european security based on new installations and integration around renewable energy sources is not the best solution from the point of view of poland's energy interests, which is why i am opposed to this resolution.
‒ i voted in favour of the eu's heating and cooling strategy, which is the first step in analysing the problems and challenges in the sector and addressing them through eu energy policy.
to achieve the eu's climate and energy goals, the sector covered by the strategy must undergo a radical change to reduce energy consumption and reduce the use of fossil fuels.
studies show that 84% of the energy used for heating and cooling is still from fossil fuels, and only 16% from renewable sources.
the main objectives of the strategy are to link electricity systems to heating and cooling systems and to recover energy from industrial waste.
the biggest efficiency reserves for the new eu countries that joined the eu after 2004, including poland, lie in the thermal retrofitting of buildings as the simplest way to use energy efficiently and to reduce co2 emissions significantly.
at least 25% of the total appropriations from the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund should be allocated to this purpose.
a different problem, which is currently increasing in the european mediterranean countries, is cooling, which is associated with the process of gradual warming of the climate.
this is the first step in analysing the problems and challenges in this sector and addressing them through eu energy policy.
in the context of the heating and cooling strategy, the commission organised an ad hoc consultation forum on 9 september 2015. in total, 84% of the energy used for heating and cooling is still from fossil fuels, and only 16% from renewable sources.
to meet the eu's climate and energy targets, the heating and cooling sector needs to radically reduce energy consumption and reduce the use of fossil fuels.
the main focus is on decarbonising heating and cooling, renovating existing buildings, connecting electricity to heating and cooling, increasing the share of renewable energy in heating and cooling, and recovering energy from industrial waste.
‒ heating and cooling involves converting about 40% of total primary energy into about 50% of total useful energy in the form of heat.
while electricity generation can be standardised in the single energy market, heating and cooling require local solutions.
however, the dependence of heating and cooling on the energy market is increasing, e.g.
the diversity of the needs of the union's citizens for thermal comfort is demonstrated by the fact that the annual energy consumption per square metre of heated area varies between 60 and even 300 kwh in the member states.
the ep report focused on a number of important issues, including the drive to phase out outdated, small, non-ecological district heating and the transition to high-efficiency cogeneration systems.
‒ the work of the committee on the heating and cooling strategy is relevant from the perspective of the energy and climate union and the security of energy supply.
the use of modern heating and cooling technologies, the use of biogas, biomass in energy production, the implementation of high-quality insulation in buildings and the modernisation of older buildings, investments in small, high-efficiency heaters these activities increase energy management efficiency.
smes are thus the main drivers of long-term european growth and sustainable job creation in the member states.
preventing environmental damage and moving to a low-carbon economy are societal challenges that create new opportunities for companies to market green products and services.
smes need a conducive environment in which green solutions can be easily developed, financed and marketed.
in addition, the alpine macro-region is also highly vulnerable to the effects of climate change today.
this is why i believe that the public authorities should, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, respond to the economic and ecological challenges of the alpine macro-region.
the strategy covers three thematic areas: growth policy, mobility and connectivity, and environmental and energy protection.
they are the result of a long process of trial and error, in which a free society has found the institutional principles that ensure freedom and enable the organization of an economy that is sustainable and promises to improve the quality of life.
how, for example, am i to deal with the allegation that the minister of the environment has fundamentally changed the composition of a body that is essentially an advisory body?
as rapporteur for the ep committee on culture and education on the 2017 budget, i strongly reiterate that investments in culture and education contribute disproportionately to promoting smart, sustainable economic growth and are a strategic investment in human capital.
the vote will take place on wednesday 14 september 2016.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council by mr norbert linz, mr pavel poc, mr julie girling, mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, mr younous omarjee, mr keith taylor and mr marco affronte, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the main objectives for the 17th conference of the parties to the cites convention in johannesburg (south africa) (o-000088/2016 - b8-0711/2016) and the oral question to the commission by mr norbert linz, mr pavel poc, mr julie girling, mr gerben-jan gerbrandy, mr younous omarjee, mr keith taylor and mr marco affronte, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the main objectives for the 17th conference of the parties to the cites convention in johannesburg (south africa) (cites-jha) (o-000089/2016 - b8-0712/2016).
today's zeitgeist climate will not be conducive to the celebration of another anniversary of the treaties of rome.
president juncker chose his own words for his speech and i think he has chosen the right tone and words for his speech in the climate we have in europe today.
the agreement in its current form covers trade in goods, development cooperation and provisions on trade and sustainable development.
the economic partnership agreements (epas) on trade and development between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and the european union, which are intended in principle to promote trade, regional integration and the gradual integration of the acp states into the world economy, as well as to promote their sustainable development.
in my view, this agreement can bring about positive changes and contribute to sustainable economic growth and the development of intra-regional trade and deepening of intra-regional integration.
while this development-oriented regional trade agreement currently covers only trade in goods, development cooperation and trade and sustainable development provisions, it also leaves the possibility to negotiate further provisions on services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement and more detailed provisions on sustainable development.
we need an intelligent approach which combines immediate initiatives to kick-start investment with longer-term work to improve the investment environment.
in my view, promoting competition in this sector is also important in achieving the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of sustainable growth and a more competitive economy.
the rights of postal workers, whose high mobility requires, among other things, the guarantee of a safe working environment and health protection, remain an important issue.
in addition, the lack of macroeconomic stability and transparent regulations has resulted in a disadvantageous environment for smes in many countries that joined the union after 2004 and in euro area countries that are experiencing a crisis.
the rapporteur stressed that in order to create a robust environment for entrepreneurship and to increase the potential for job creation, national and european policies should focus primarily on the issue of skills, legal uncertainty and administrative burdens, and the problem of unregistered work.
the parliament's report rightly emphasises the need to create an environment that encourages investment while promoting sustainable growth and the creation of quality jobs.
the report noted the need to look at the regulations and the environment in which they exist in order to make the most of their potential.
the european globalisation adjustment fund aims not so much to help workers who are victims of this process, but above all to support sustainable employment in areas affected by the effects of economic change.
at the same time, the pursuit of sustainable development and the fight against poverty must be combined with progress towards democracy and respect for human rights.
the european union, if it is to act for sustainable development and promote democracy in the world, must consider how to organise its relations with the acp countries not only for the next few years but also beyond 2020. the cotonou agreement, which has governed these relations so far, has proved to be an inadequate instrument in this respect.
as there is no president elected, with all the consequences of that, it is difficult to have an agreement with the lebanese government, and therefore we have decided, in order not to waste time and resources, to channel most of the money via unicef.
– mr president, i would like to thank the committee on development and its chair, ms linda mcavan, for putting nutrition high on the development agenda in line with our commitment to the un 2030 agenda and sustainable development goals.
combating poverty and hunger and promoting this sector of the economy should be the overriding objective of the european union, namely the achievement of the second item of the sustainable development goals.
food security, alongside energy and defence security, is the most important global challenge facing the world today.
the next item is the debate on the question for oral answer addressed to the commission by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development, giovanni la via, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, bernad lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade, czeslaw adam ocherski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, and jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on combating illegal logging, deforestation and forest degradation eu action programme (o-000121/2016 - brs-08-0720/2016) (2016/2428(p)).
the problem of illegal exploitation of forest resources and the risks that such activities entail are not only environmental but also economic and social.
the misuse of forests causes considerable damage not only to the natural environment.
in addition to deforestation, biodiversity loss and increased greenhouse gas emissions, illegal logging contributes to conflict between indigenous and local communities, human rights violations and corruption.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
it is very important to show the citizens of the european union that the environment and climate change are as important to us as the economy.
- today we ratified the paris climate agreement.
the energy sector in poland, but also in other member states, is based on coal.
this means that these countries' economies must be emitting more carbon.
i have a feeling that our eu climate targets will be met largely at the expense of the industries of these countries.
the mechanisms of this artificial quasi-market in co2 emissions, the eu ets, contain a huge speculative potential which, in my view, will not result in what we have committed ourselves to when we ratified the climate agreement.
‒ the paris agreement, signed by the 28 eu member states in new york in april 2016, underlines the importance of action to combat climate change and clearly sets the goal of achieving a 'climate-neutral world economy'.
among its key provisions was the idea of limiting global warming to below 2°c compared to the pre-industrial era (targeted at 1.5°c), and a clear message that a shift away from the use of scarce natural resources such as fossil fuels towards clean renewable energy was needed.
all countries have also committed to take mitigation measures that will enable them to meet their stated targets (the eu has committed to reducing emissions by at least 40% by 2030).
they will also meet every five years to report on progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in total, including the european community countries, 195 countries have signed and ratified the agreement, which is set to enter into force if ratified by at least 55 signatories, responsible for at least 55% of global emissions.
the european union is playing a leading role in the international arena in combating climate change, and in the document adopted today we call for the agreement to be ratified as soon as possible.
‒ a swift decision by the eu to ratify the paris agreement under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) will send a strong signal and highlight the primary role of the eu and its member states, as well as their efforts to prevent climate change at international level.
implementation of the paris agreement will play a key role in global efforts to combat climate change and limit the rise in global average temperature to below 2°c pre-industrial levels.
this is a very important, first ever binding climate agreement.
europe has built a front for ambitious environmental and climate goals, as president juncker also stressed in his speech.
the eu, which has been the main architect of the agreement, has also signed it, symbolically crossing the threshold of at least 55 parties, representing at least 55% of global emissions, to allow it to enter into force.
however, it should be emphasised that reduction efforts and the promotion of climate-friendly solutions must be pursued without prejudice to development and innovation, and must take into account in detail the specific nature of different sectors (e.g.
energy, transport, agriculture).
it is worth noting that agriculture and forestry have a special relationship with the climate and the environment, as they are the only ones that, in addition to emitting greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, also have a huge potential to absorb and store compounds that affect climate warming.
‒ the paris agreement is the summation of global efforts to combat climate change and limit the rise in global average temperatures.
it is part of the eu's sustainable development policy, which must reconcile economic growth with the need to preserve the environment for future generations.
a swift decision to ratify will underline the primary role of member states in driving action at international level to prevent climate change.
i believe that the union's relations with the acp states could take the form of an umbrella agreement which would define a more general, global framework for our relations based on dialogue on issues such as the achievement of the sustainable development goals, climate change and migration, while allowing for a parallel strengthening of relations with individual regions or sub-regions based on more specific agreements.
calls for the fight against poverty and inequality and the promotion of sustainable development to remain the overriding objective of acp-eu cooperation.
the private sector is an area to be considered as it can play a key role in the development process and contribute to its financing, protecting investments with respect for people, traditional property and uses and the environment in line with the un guiding principles on business and human rights.
i agree that tackling poverty and inequality remains an important objective of acp-eu cooperation, as does promoting sustainable development with respect for the environment.
we encourage the greek government to accelerate their implementation, especially those improving the pension system, tax collection, bank governance and the energy market.
the future of the current programme is, however, uncertain because of wide differences in the debt sustainability analyses produced by the commission and the imf.
addressing hunger and malnutrition is very important, and i welcome the text of the resolution which refers not only to immediate measures but also to long-term measures, such as the creation of sustainable agriculture that is resilient to climate change and food systems that can feed the world's population.
to this end, support should be given to smaller food producers and a sustainable, efficient and climate-resilient model of agriculture should be promoted.
the world's population is projected to increase significantly by 2050, which will require increased food production, reduced food waste and increased global availability, particularly where access is currently limited.
‒ the european union's policies and actions for sustainable development have a global impact.
yesterday in this chamber we passed a stupid piece of legislation on the environment: the paris convention, which would mean that 15 to 20 million people in europe would lose their jobs if it were implemented.
nobody will do it, thankfully, but right here in this room, parliament has passed legislation that will cause 15 to 20 million people to lose their jobs because of the increased taxes needed to fight the idiotic global warming.
in order to remain competitive and able to invest in europe, and to meet social and environmental challenges, eu companies are often faced with difficult decisions that have the greatest impact on their employees.
it is therefore necessary to develop a european strategy for the main industrial sectors in europe in order to create a more favourable market environment and to maintain high quality employment, expertise and investment in europe.
the vast majority of countries around the world have agreed to take collective action to reduce the impact of man-made greenhouse gas emissions on the atmosphere.
i have to admit that i myself am surprised at the pace at which countries that have not been known for their ambitious climate policies, such as china, the united states, india, have ratified.
many countries objected to the word because they saw the need to reduce emissions, but they felt they could do so without completely abandoning coal, which is a cheap and available resource and which modern technologies are reducing significantly.
the most frequent infringement procedures were in the areas of environment, transport, internal market and services.
and climate law has that characteristic.
well, if you put a tax on carbon emissions, for example, and on emissions at some level that is currently set, for every next emission you have to pay and trade those emission rights, it means that poor countries that want to develop will have to pay countries that have developed for a long time, so we are funding a huge injustice in the world with these mechanisms and we are stopping the development of these countries and increasing poverty in the world.
‒ i voted against the draft resolution on the un climate conference 2016 cop 22 in marrakesh.
the project content covers highly relevant environmental issues such as: reduction of non-co2 emissions, the need to reduce aviation and marine emissions, the role of climate diplomacy and the limitation of emissions leakage.
i am of course in favour of tackling climate change, but i do not think it is appropriate to increase funding for the fight against climate change.
‒ the agreement for global climate action was adopted at the 21st conference of the parties (cop 21) on climate change in paris in december 2015. the aim of the agreement is to keep the global average temperature rise well below 2°c above pre-industrial levels and to continue to strive to limit the rise to 1.5°c.
the agreement also aims to ensure that the tipping point for maximum emission levels is reached as soon as possible, so as to achieve balanced greenhouse gas emissions and removals in the second half of the 21st century.
the imposition of increasingly stringent climate requirements and the successive obligations imposed on industrial enterprises in the european union are leading to a reduction in their competitive advantage on the global market.
the european union should therefore play a leading role in the fight against climate change in this process, provided that it is global and not confined to europe.
‒ the resolution sets out parliament's main priorities ahead of the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the resolution touches on important issues such as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the need to reduce aviation and maritime emissions and reaffirms the growing importance of climate diplomacy.
however, the original draft resolution was amended to call for even more ambitious climate policy targets by 2030 and thus for even more funds to be mobilised to combat climate change.
‒ genetically modified food can have negative effects on humans, animals and the environment and should be carefully controlled in this respect.
‒ genetically modified food can have negative effects on humans, animals and the environment and should be carefully controlled in this respect.
‒ genetically modified food can have negative effects on humans, animals and the environment and should be carefully controlled in this respect.
‒ committee on the environment, public health and food safety genetically modified food can have negative effects on humans, animals and the environment and should be carefully controlled in this respect.
‒ genetically modified food can have negative effects on humans, animals and the environment and should be carefully controlled in this respect.
on tuesday, we agreed to the ratification of the paris climate agreement by the member states.
this is certainly good news in the context of the fight against climate change, as it gives an ambitious direction to low-carbon innovation, which can be a very strong development impulse for the european union as a whole.
however, investments in a low-carbon economy require significant financial commitments.
investing in new technologies, especially in energy, is a huge challenge for those countries whose economies are still based on traditional energy sources such as coal.
it is therefore pleased that the european commission is supporting member states in their efforts to combat global warming.
europe needs significant, long-term and sustainable investment to improve productivity and move to a low-carbon and resource-efficient economy.
the efsi also operates in conjunction with other european union funds and in the context of the capital markets union, giving a new impetus to this change by increasing the number and size of sustainable projects to be funded in line with the ambitious goals of the paris climate agreement.
a low-carbon economy means moving to a completely new reality, especially in countries where the use of fossil fuels, the main source of greenhouse gas emissions, is very deeply rooted.
a well-designed strategy for the transition to low-carbon energy can be a very powerful development impetus, both for all european countries and for the union as a whole.
however, to do so, the strategy should be tailored to the socioeconomic realities of the country and take into account the changing global context, geopolitical situation, energy basket and access to raw materials.
let us also remember that the benefits of moving to a low-carbon economy and an economy based on, for example, clean coal technologies, often involve investments in new, highly skilled jobs.
in the context of sustainable finance, the impact of supported investments on national and local labour markets is hugely important.
the negative impact on the environment is minimised and the installations used reduce dust emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and noise.
he points to areas of cooperation that is, economies with narrow designations such as banking, environmental protection, energy, and the fight against drug trafficking but also talks about differences, and he names them: the number of death sentences, the treatment of ethnic and religious minorities, and iran's unsatisfactory role as a stabilizer in the region.
both require diversification of energy sources, such as gas and oil.
now it is time for the co-legislators to show their commitment to finding a long-term sustainable solution.
the inclusion of migration in the recently adopted 2030 sustainable development agenda is therefore an important milestone.
facilitating migration and improving migration policies, as called for in the 2013 sustainable development goals, will allow livelihoods to be improved and will enhance access for refugees to education, job markets, health and housing.
as the report rightly outlines, this study can have a transformative effect on reinforcing our energy security and boosting our competitiveness by providing access to liquid hubs and a diverse range of gas sources.
the commission’s lng and gas storage strategy aims to exploit the potential of liquefied natural gas and gas storage to make the european union gas system more diverse and flexible, thus contributing to the key energy union objective of a secure, resilient and competitive gas supply.
furthermore, lng also has the potential in some cases to reduce environmental impacts, especially in the transport sector.
let me reiterate: the european union’s lng strategy was conceived with our paris climate commitments in mind.
the truth is that natural gas is likely to remain an important source for our energy mix as one possible solution for a flexible energy system which includes responsive generation, demand response, grids and storage.
as we work on decarbonising our economy, renewables will become more prominent in the european union’s energy mix, while gas will maintain its role with around 24-25%, pushing out other more polluting fossil fuels.
there is a successful cesec high-level group that brings together member states and energy community countries in central and south-east europe, has identified six key priority projects and already approve an action plan of regulatory solutions that we propose in our lng strategy to make them happen.
on stranded assets, let me say that we are fully aware of the risks here, given today’s constantly changing environment.
on climate and sustainability, i fully support the report’s conclusions.
as mentioned in the report, we should also highlight the potential of renewable sources of gas, also in the form of liquefied biogas.
lng trade is already a subject in our energy dialogues with important consumers such as japan and current and future suppliers such as the gulf countries, the united states and canada, and this will be a step up in the future.
it can have a significant impact across all five dimensions of the energy union, and i look forward to working with the european parliament to make that happen.
the european union's strategy on lng and gas storage is an important step towards improving energy security and stability.
i would like to emphasise that one of the main challenges facing the european union in the framework of the common energy policy is to ensure that all citizens and economic operators have continuous and competitive access to energy, including natural gas.
we cannot talk about energy security when many member states are dependent on one supplier, experiencing problems such as price discrimination or supply disruptions.
i would like to stress that energy security depends not only on market competition but also on european union legislation and strategic agreements.
therefore it is important to ensure effective controls of fisheries activities in order to guarantee sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and maintain a level playing field among eu fleets.
that not only proves that european regulations make sense but also are crucial in combating degradation of our environment.
the commission will therefore continue to prioritise sustainable modes of transport in line with the objectives of our transport white paper and our commitment to combating climate change.
they should reduce road traffic and protect the environment by improving the fluidity of rail transport.
moreover, iran has some of the world's largest oil and gas reserves and deepening energy cooperation between the union and the republic of iran could play an important role in diversifying the eu's energy supply sources and reducing the energy dependence of member states on a single supplier russia.
the report aims to encourage member states to ensure that rights such as human rights, labour and environmental standards and the fight against corporate corruption are respected.
‒ the i. corrao report cites the un guidelines on business and human rights and the revised oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises, which require corporations operating in third countries to voluntarily adhere to values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption.
in my view, the strategy should focus on lng and gas storage issues, which are helpful in creating a strong energy union, and in practice it links to binding energy and climate targets for 2030. which i believe is designed to undermine the future role of lng and gas storage, and therefore i voted against.
‒ there is a lot of talk about non-renewable energy and its dwindling resources.
it is estimated that the most popular deposits, such as oil and coal, will run out around 2040. this is increasing the consumption of natural gas, which today accounts for only 20% of the world's total energy demand and whose reserves are still not fully exploited.
at the same time, the european union wants to reduce its emissions of greenhouse gases, which cause global warming, and to ensure that it has constant access to energy, thereby reducing its dependence on imports.
this requires the full integration of the energy policies of the individual member states of the union and the provision of stable gas supplies.
it should be seen as a guide with a set of key instruments on how to unlock lng and gas storage potential in order to achieve the goal of a strong energy union and complete the internal energy market.
s&d, alde and the greens have tried to broaden the scope of this report by adding themes on energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and shale gas.
‒ in february 2016, the european commission published a communication on an eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage as part of the sustainable energy security package.
reducing europe's dependence on energy imports, especially from one direction, the east, should be a key element in building the european union's energy security.
in this context, it is difficult to consider nord stream ii as an investment in line with the interests of the community, the foundations of the energy union and the european energy security strategy.
‒ the operation of lng terminals is an important building block of the internal energy market in the european union, providing another source of natural gas supply.
this will increase the energy security of the member states and their citizens.
‒ the strategy discussed in the plenary session is a very important step towards the creation of a well-functioning energy union, a project which poland was one of the initiators of.
with this in mind, liquefied natural gas (lng) represents an opportunity to diversify gas supplies and thus increase the eu's energy security.
the new eu strategy aims to facilitate the construction of not only lng terminals but also of the supporting pipeline infrastructure between member states, which is one of the key tools for implementing the principle of energy solidarity in times of gas shortages.
in particular, in all fishing areas where the catches of species are below the maximum sustainable yield (msy).
it is important that the union further strengthen its efforts to implement and monitor this global commitment to eradicate poverty and ensure sustainable development.
secondly, innovative digitalised economy and energy security.
it means, from the point of view of the budget, cosme for competitive smes – very important; horizon 2020; leadership in technological progress; excellence; and the connecting europe facility, digital progress and secure, affordable and clean energy.
this framework will enable companies and investors to develop their activities in the european union, not through selective tax breaks or secret tax rescripts, but simply because they will benefit from a tax environment that is simple, readable, stable and also, of course, favourable to economic activity.
it is different because we have a better proposal, a better approach, a more favourable policy environment also, given all the events that have taken place in recent years and the progress that has already been made in corporate taxation.
today, i believe we have the environment, if not ideal, at least optimal to relaunch accis.
it is also necessary to complete and implement by 2018 the individual single market strategies, including the digital single market, the capital markets union, the energy union and the single market agenda.
we are also intensifying our cooperation in the area of energy.
as part of a re-engagement with belarus, the commission is considering relaunching the formal eu-belarus energy dialogue in the near future.
nuclear safety issues have always been an overall eu concern, especially when new facilities are being constructed on the border with the eu, and are a key component of the exchanges on energy with belarus.
so let me start by thanking all the volunteers for their work, their time, their effort and their energy.
many of the speakers mentioned the anniversary of european voluntary service, which has enabled young people to support initiatives they believe in: helping refugees and migrants, promoting environmental attitudes, helping children and the elderly, or working for ngos.
volunteers need spaces to learn and gain experience, but they also need to have the right to appropriate training that will help them to get to know the organisation they work for and the environment in which they will operate better at the first stage.
the second pillar of the common agricultural policy should support sustainable development and diversification of activities into forms such as energy production and small and micro-enterprises in trade and services.
‒ i voted against the discharge report for 2014, specifically the joint undertaking for iter and the development of nuclear energy, which means that i did not give my discharge.
‒ the report concerns the discharge to the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
the differences are national, regional and environmental.
universities as repositories for the unemployed and the undecided are a waste of time, money and opportunity on the part of both students and faculty.
i therefore call on the european commission to carry out an appropriate assessment of the impact on the business environment before proposing further regulations in this area and others, so that they do not impose a burden on financial service providers and users alike.
– madam president, the eu security environment is deteriorating considerably, which coincides paradoxically with flagging defence investments in the union.
it is important to clarify the action programme with a view to implementing the sustainable development goals, which should be at the heart of the cooperation framework, as well as the addis ababa provisions on its financing.
number three, this is still an insufficiently conducive environment for business activities that would make europe an attractive, the most attractive, place for investment across the whole world.
the rapid implementation of this regulation is intended to ensure that the amendment of the rules on the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks is carried out smoothly.
‒ the report focuses on a wide range of issues related to financial services in general and, more specifically, on the opportunities for streamlining the sector to the benefit of consumers and smes by ensuring a healthy competitive environment.
this is particularly the case for defence planning, the sustainable development of defence industrial cooperation and defence capacity building in all member states.
this is because the european union needs to respond more decisively to emerging threats, such as terrorism, cyberattacks and energy security.
at the same time, water transport is widely recognised as one of the most sustainable modes of passenger transport.
in the context of the implementation of the development strategy, cooperation between the private and public sectors is important, contributing to sustainable and inclusive development.
the implementation of the strategy beyond the objectives should also take into account the fact that development challenges have changed with the emergence of new global challenges such as migration, food security, peace and stabilisation and climate change.
the anniversary also provided an opportunity to explore and identify ways of making aid and development more effective in order to contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals and the addis ababa action plan on financing for development.
it is also a good opportunity to explore how increasing aid and development effectiveness could contribute to the un sustainable development goals and the addis ababa action plan on aid financing.
this is the industrial policy of the union, the reindustrialisation policy, but also innovation and research, all of which we have included in the 'horizon 2020' programme, as well as energy independence and cybersecurity.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
clean air, eco-innovation, the protection of natural capital and new green technologies are our goals, but extending restrictions to non-toxic gases and limiting methane emissions, for example, can disrupt the agricultural sector.
unfortunately, this project does not take into account particulate emissions of much less than two and a half micrometres, does not take into account dioxin and unfortunately completely ignores the particularly dangerous low level emissions that occur during the heating season.
clean air is a goal we should all strive for, but overly ambitious targets will increase low emissions, among other things, and also hit agriculture very hard.
the whole negotiation was based on a dubious methodology that calculated the reduction of pollution as a percentage of the improvement in health, as if the improvement in health depended on that one source alone.
the second issue is that of our ‘homework’ – the internal responsibility of the european union with regard to the ets, proper reform of the ets system to prevent carbon leakage and stimulate modernisation in a gradual and technological neutral way.
we simply have to do this homework: otherwise, firstly, we neglect our share of global responsibility; secondly, we increase global emissions; and, thirdly, we endanger our competitiveness.
and the first thing that i think we should do is make sure that we're not the only major economy in the world that's really fighting climate change.
we're pretty much alone right now, and we're not going to help the climate fight if we keep doing this.
our international situation and impact is the most important thing right now, and if we cause a leak today because of bad decisions on the ets - a leak, that is, a job leak from the european union - then de facto global emissions will increase, not decrease, because emissions outside the eu are higher.
so be careful with the ets reform, because we're going to destroy our own economy, because it's more dangerous for climate change than any of the strict ets rules.
‒ i voted against the report on emissions of certain air pollutants.
the concerns stem from the fact that the initiative, in its wording, by assuming emission limits, may have negative effects on the polish agricultural, steel, construction and, in particular, thermal energy sectors.
the introduction of the amendments will consequently entail high financial costs for the reduction of emissions of sulphur dioxide and ammonia compounds, which are listed in the directives.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the use of pesticides is not significantly reduced.
‒ the european union attaches great importance to environmental protection and the fight against the effects of climate change.
it is worth remembering that agriculture and forestry are the only sectors of the economy that are significant emitters of greenhouse gases, but they are also sectors that simultaneously counteract global warming by absorbing and storing significant amounts of carbon dioxide in soils and plants.
given this specific nature, the environmental functions of agriculture and the already introduced restrictions, it would be problematic for the sector to include methane emission commitments in the nec directive.
eu member states are very diverse in terms of agricultural production structures, farm sizes and production patterns, and the modernisation of the sector to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and environmental impact should be carried out in a flexible way to avoid economic stagnation and to move the economy towards innovative and sustainable solutions.
in any case, synergies between agricultural and energy policies and the environment should be ensured.
it's the carbon that causes the most carbon dioxide to rise in the atmosphere.
therefore, i am very glad that the eu treats that sort of disinformation campaign as a potential serious threat for its security environment.
the misuse of these compounds can lead to harmful effects for both humans and the environment.
let us not waste any more time because the situation is getting worse by the minute.
there is no doubt that everything possible must be done to help jordan to play its best possible role in this important area, as well as to ensure sustainability and stability, and that is why macroeconomic support is undoubtedly very much needed here.
a healthy competitive environment cannot simply be called a barrier.
small and medium-sized enterprises in the transport sector face many constraints: tax, environmental and social barriers that effectively hinder their functioning.
it significantly increases gazprom's dominance in the central and eastern european energy markets, making it gazprom that gains a de facto hegemonic position.
the decision undermines european law, it also undermines the principle of solidarity with ukraine and other countries as enshrined in the energy community treaty, the association agreement with ukraine and other legal acts.
if we want to make a difference in the energy sector, we have to remember that tea is sweeter not so much from blending it as from adding sugar, so we have to take care of the energy supply, not to drown people with windmills or solar panels, but to take care of really cheap energy, gas and oil.
2016 is coming to an end, the year of the energy union.
i appreciate the commission's efforts to base this decision on market mechanisms, but there is still no fully competitive energy market in central europe and there are even energy islands, as is well known.
it is also contrary to the spirit of the energy union: firstly, it weakens the energy security of the region by favouring one supplier; secondly, it creates tensions between eu countries; and thirdly, it puts the neighbours of the union, including ukraine, at odds.
paradoxically, the commission's opal decision may confirm the view of some countries that the interest, the letter and the spirit of the energy union is irrelevant, and that this would be the worst solution and the worst assumption for energy security.
the many dimensions of security that europeans need are indeed materializing in what we call the energy union or energy security.
we have raised the issue of europe's energy security dozens of times in this chamber, but i feel that we are still faced with the same painful reality.
although the european union is the world's economic power, it is not the eu that dictates the terms of our energy security.
our high dependence on energy from third countries can also, in my view, pose a threat to the sovereignty of the union.
i therefore call on us to be able to overcome national egoisms and not to allow ourselves to be manipulated and divided by third parties, for example in the implementation of projects such as nord stream 2. i am convinced that only by acting together and by giving a strong signal of our unity and solidarity can we increase the eu's energy security and act in the interests of european consumers.
this is but one aspect of the shocking gap between living conditions in our world, but it has a number of consequences for people’s health and safety, education, well—being and chance to earn a living; for women who carry out the difficult, time—consuming and sometimes risky task of collecting firewood and have to use unhealthy and hazardous cooking methods; for the development progress – or lack thereof – of communities and countries; for the preservation of vegetation, forest and biodiversity; for local climates and for the global effort to limit climate change and handle its consequences; and of course sometimes also for peace and security, as the energy issue can spawn conflict.
access to energy is a key driver of development.
ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all is one of the sdgs adopted in the united nations last year.
our parliament has been emphasising for years that the focus should be on the small-scale production of renewable energy, local networks and off—grid solutions.
such solutions produce the biggest contribution to development and are best at avoiding negative impacts on the environment.
we have also seen that the regulation on the development cooperation instrument prescribes this orientation of eu development policy in the energy area.
the potential for renewable energy production is particularly great in africa, which is also where electrification is least developed.
insufficient and hazardous traditional use of biomass, such as firewood and charcoal, currently dominates africa’s energy consumption.
a cautious approach to more modern types of bioenergy is necessary since such energy production can come at the cost of food production, affect land use rights, cause deforestation and degradation of land and reduce the availability of water for other purposes.
energy poverty is most widespread in rural areas, but providing access to energy in rapidly growing cities is also a massive challenge.
climate finance provided by developed to developing countries is another important source.
together with technology transfer, it also affects africa leaders’ wish to focus on renewable energy sources and industrialisation processes.
in parallel with public funds, more private money must go into energy investment.
public-private partnerships can be useful and the general trend in eu development policy towards providing grants, loans, subsidies and other incentives for private investment is particularly strong in the area of energy investment.
the eu has recently launched an electrification financing initiative, electrifi and facilitating energy investment is also among the central aims of the european external investment plan proposed by the commission.
the eu can be proud of the scale of its work to extend energy provision in developing countries.
in the period 2014—2020 we are spending eur 3.5 billion on development assistance in the energy area.
the commission proposal for a new european consensus on development rightly points to the crucial role of energy for development and in climate action.
in 2012 the commission set out to provide access to sustainable energy for an additional 500 million people in developing countries by 2030. we are now asking the commission to tell us about the general state of progress, the main challenges encountered and the outlook for the continued implementation of development assistance in the energy area.
we would also like to know what proportion of the funds engaged is going to local renewable energy projects and how we can achieve the target of eur 500 billion.
first of all, i would like to start with a sad observation: we are talking about energy, about the possibilities of providing, above all, developing countries with better access to sources, including renewable sources, and we have only a dozen people in the room.
three and a half billion dollars is the increase in spending on this issue that we're talking about, and 2030, which is what's associated with the paris convention and the program that's about expanding access to energy for developing countries.
i would point out that in africa alone, renewable energy is quite high, but the use of solar power, for example, is extremely low.
fourthly, i would like to draw attention to the need to take account of safety, broadly defined safety, that is to say, safety relating to the production, transmission, use of the various energy sources and protection against accidents.
and fifth, the use of satellite navigation systems, or satellite systems, particularly copernicus, to diagnose, to inventory, to monitor everything that has to do with energy consumption.
we are talking about the need to support local markets, the need to build energy production capacity from small players.
and at the end of these 18 paragraphs of the motion for a resolution, i quote paragraph 11. it is primarily concerned with the world commission on dams' guidelines: in particular, it emphasises that the planning of any dam should be assessed in terms of five values: equity, efficiency, stakeholder decision-making, sustainability and accountability.
almost two billion people in the world have no access to electricity, and yet we all know that the energy grid is a condition for the economic and civilized development of the world.
on the one hand, the union is undertaking an energy development initiative to provide an additional 500 million people with access to sustainable energy by 2030, and at the same time it accepts that gazprom's pipeline gas will increase to 50% of all european gas supplies by 2030, as confirmed by the agreement between the german company and russia's gazprom.
so the union is not balancing access to energy, but rather allowing for an element of political influence of electricity.
moreover, the union is encouraging, or even forcing, energy-rich countries to produce biofuels, which do little to improve their climate and energy policies.
the resolution also contains a provision to phase out subsidies for fossil fuels, which is a disruptive measure for the energy policy of some eu member states, such as poland, where coal is the main source of energy.
in conclusion, it is very good that the european union is committed to ensuring access to sustainable energy in developing countries, including in sub-saharan africa and, for the programme for eritrea, because this requires a sense of solidarity with all countries in the world and the ability to share the rich with the poor.
it would be even better if the union's policy in this area were rational and balanced, free from protectionism and not distorting the energy policies of the member states of the union.
and the question can the commission present its own assessment of the global conditions for achieving sustainable development goal 7 and give an opinion on new and urgently needed actions and can it initiate and implement opinions?
how close is the union to achieving its target of 500 million people with access to sustainable energy?
i would also point out that the macroeconomic environment in the eu affects the ability of the member states to meet their funding commitments to the eu institutions and bodies and thus, as we well know, the ability of the eu to continue to implement eu policies.
next week the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) will once again lead the european parliament delegation to the forum’s meeting in mexico.
the effectiveness of national schemes in relation to pollution damage caused by such activities is based on systems for dealing with claims for compensation and the availability of financial security instruments.
it also calls on the commission to add major accidents in the oil extraction sector to the environmental offences directive, regretting that the definitions of offences in this area have not been harmonised.
the directive provides that concessionaires are absolutely responsible for preventing and remedying environmental damage caused by their activities.
it is equally important to provide a legal framework for actions to repair environmental damage caused by a marine casualty in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle.
‒ achieving sustainable access to energy is crucial to meeting human needs and is a key driver of development.
the resolution notes the eu's strong commitment to efforts to reduce energy poverty, and stresses the need for strong and coordinated action by governments and stakeholders in affected countries to reduce poverty and achieve the sustainable development goal.
i fully support any effort to ensure access to energy in developing countries.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection.
‒ sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is essential to meet basic human needs and respect for fundamental rights, including access to clean water, sanitation, a safe environment, health care, heating and education, and plays a key role in virtually all economic activities and is a crucial driver of development.
at the same time, africa has the largest untapped renewable energy potential on the planet.
the paris agreement, which aims to support developing countries, especially in africa, in developing sustainable energy, can make a significant improvement in this area.
there is no doubt that much better coordination is needed between the many eu and international initiatives to increase access to energy in developing countries.
‒ ensuring sustainable access to energy is essential to meet humanity's basic needs and is a key driver of development.
the growing contribution of private investment in this sector is cited as necessary to achieve affordable and secure energy for all.
any activity that has a direct impact on the availability of energy in developing countries should be supported.
the court of auditors, on the other hand, points to the waste of money earmarked for investment.
this is why it is so important to adopt solutions that improve, rather than restrict, the functioning of ports, while taking into account the specificities of port management in each member state, the specific hydrological and ecological conditions of the marine areas.
but deep-sea fishing is slowly destroying this delicate ecosystem.
the management of deep-sea resources must be sustainable and interconnected, in line with scientific guidelines, and should effectively protect this unique ecosystem.
it is necessary to improve the investment environment and to broaden the range of financial instruments available to micro-enterprises, while promoting mixed financing, in particular in the form of public-private partnerships.
– madam president, distinguished members, as you will remember, on the previous occasions when we have met over the past two years i was always telling you about our plans, objectives and our future path for creating the energy union, one which serves europe’s citizens, boosts our industries and preserves our environment.
we have presented to you over the past two years the strategy, the legislation and the enabling environment for turning the energy union from a catchy buzzword to the reality we live in.
with last week’s package we are 90% done with what we have promised, and now we very much need the european parliament to make sure that the energy union also becomes a legal reality.
it has eight legislative proposals and some important political communications and reports, so i shall just focus on the three main goals: how to put energy efficiency first; how to achieve global leadership in renewables; and what we can do to provide a really fair deal for our consumers.
on this last aspect it was very important for us to have a particular social component in the package, particularly for those who have difficulties in paying their energy bills, and to make sure that the transition we are starting will be a transition which we can call socially fair.
thirdly, we are proposing a mechanism that is solid and robust so we can collectively reach all the energy union’s objectives, in particular the 2030 targets, and to put europe firmly on the road to a low-carbon economy and society.
the key instrument will be the national energy and climate plans, plans that have a long-term perspective of 2030 or even 2050. the plans will cover all five dimensions of the energy union and will be the result of consultations with other neighbouring member states because we know how important regional cooperation in this aspect is.
we would like to make sure that the work on these plans will start swiftly because we would like to see the final form by the beginning of 2019, and this will be an important goal of my second energy union which i would like to start in february next year and where i hope some of you, as we did the last time, could join me.
then we will have a system of biannual reports and every year we will also issue a report on the energy union, where we will analyse the overall situation in europe and where we will also if needed issue the necessary recommendations.
– madam president, as explained by vice-president šefčovič, the main building blocks of the legislative proposals cover energy efficiency, renewable energy, the design of the electricity market and governance rules for the energy union.
let me start with energy efficiency first.
for buildings, a sector which accounts for 40% of europe’s energy consumption, we are proposing to speed up the renovation rate and promote the use of innovative and smart technologies.
as examples of concrete measures we propose prolonging the savings obligations in order to contribute to the energy efficiency target, deploying about five million electric vehicle recharging points, and encouraging greater use of renewable energy in buildings, which is currently just 16%.
with this set of measures, our proposal will speed up investment in the renovation of buildings, create a building renovation market with a value between eur 80 and 120 billion in 2030, lower energy bills for consumers, and take up to 3.2 million households out of energy poverty.
on renewable energy, our aim is to be world leaders, maximising the use of renewable energy in buildings, transport and industry.
our new rules will ensure that the renewable energy target of at least 27% by 2030 is reached.
first, we are putting the investment framework right by consolidating several core principles for support for renewable energy in european union legislation.
second, we propose measures for the sectors which have the highest potential for the deployment of renewable energy: transport, heating and cooling, and electricity.
in transport the proposed measures will boost the use of advanced biofuels, electricity and renewable synthetic fuels.
on bioenergy in particular, after many years of uncertainty, we are introducing strengthened sustainability criteria for biomass.
also, in line with our earlier position, we propose to progressively reduce the contribution of food-based biofuels to meet the european union’s renewable target: from 7% in 2021 to 3.8% by 2030. this is both realistic and proportionate.
the renewables directive also includes a number of options for member states to increase their share of renewable energy in heating and cooling supply by one percentage point per year until 2030. furthermore, our proposal opens access rights to local district heating and cooling systems for producers of renewable heating and cooling and waste from industry, and third parties acting on their behalf.
this takes me to the third area: renewable electricity.
that would go against our climate objectives.
that is why we have set a limit of 550 grams of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour for new plants, and existing capacity mechanisms also have to adapt to the new rules in due time.
in all of this, our european union agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) will ensure the proper regulatory oversight.
the new rules will enable them not only to be more informed or to change their provider more easily, but to be able, if they want, to produce their own renewable electricity and be paid for electricity they feed into the grid.
but it should not be done in haste or under pressure, and the treaty-based division of competences between the member states of the community should be respected, bearing in mind the right of the member states to decide on their own energy mix, the right to choose how to achieve the community's objectives, for example in the field of decarbonisation.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the union industry has been able to achieve the objective of the union's policy on energy from renewable sources.
some proposals raise doubts in this respect, for example the commission's proposal to create capacity markets in the member states, in particular the proposed emission ceiling, which runs counter to the union's increasing energy independence.
the commission considers that the exemption of biomass from the scope of the renewable energy sources is not compatible with the internal market.
there are also doubts about the proposal to set a legally binding energy efficiency target of 30%.
this remains at odds with the december 2014 climate summit.
i congratulate the european commission, the commissioners responsible for energy, on this package.
this is the approach we need - in the form of a package, because all these elements of the energy union are linked and we already have almost 90% of the legislation needed in our union.
five short remarks: the energy union governance system includes an energy import dependency ratio that's good.
we wanted this in our report on the energy union.
second, there is a common target at union level for res of 27% by 2030. but we must also guarantee energy neutrality, as we have said many times and emphasized.
thirdly, if we are to safeguard this neutrality, then the setting of the emission limit on the power market at 550 kilograms per megawatt hour is certainly contrary to article 194 of our treaty, which guarantees the choice of the energy mix by the member states.
we want to trade in renewable energy, this platform should be in the main act, not in the delegated acts.
and fifth, the eu's ambitious 30% energy efficiency target is welcome, because the itre committee has always advocated a high energy efficiency target.
i wanted to make mr. cañeta, who was probably sleeping in school, realize that carbon dioxide is not waste, it's not a poison, it's a precious building block that plants build their matter from.
carbon dioxide is priceless.
ladies and gentlemen, by now most scientists are saying that global warming, if it exists at all, has nothing to do with human activity.
and i swear to god, i swear on my children's heads, i will not rest until the people who have spent the vast sums of money to fight global warming are in jail.
the criteria proposed by the commission mean that countries using coal as an energy source will not be able to launch so-called capacity markets, whereas the eu treaties stipulate that individual member states determine their own energy basket.
the fact that this was added to the regulation at the last minute (as it was not in earlier versions) without an impact assessment shows that this was a political decision by the commissioners without looking at the economic impact on member states, including a country like poland, which has a coal-based energy industry.
energy security, the fight against energy poverty, the modernisation of generation and transmission infrastructure and the green use of available energy sources are priorities in the dynamic, optimal implementation of the optimal energy union paradigm.
energy, including clean coal, when other sources are not available in sufficient quantities.
this is necessary to reduce the energy dependence on imports.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union and its implementation in the member states.
the clean energy package is a little bit controversial.
under the treaty, commissioner, each country has the right to decide on the shape of its energy basket.
unfortunately, the commission's proposal excludes the use of coal in the construction of the power market, and this will weaken poland's energy security.
secondly, the commission, in its role as energy policy maker, takes over the powers of the council.
in october 2014, heads of government agreed that the union would aim to reduce energy consumption by 27% by 2030. without any legal basis, the commission converts the ambitious target into a legally binding target and raises it to 30%.
i hope that further work on the clean energy package will remove these reservations.
energy policy should always take into account the context of the country, its sources, the raw materials it uses and its standard of living.
the elimination of coal as an energy source will only lead to an increase in the dependence of not only poland, but the entire european union on russia.
i understand the intentions of the european commission it is an attempt to find a solution to make the european union's economy competitive in the face of the inevitable technological transformation in the energy sector, and this transformation must go towards clean energy.
and indeed, the strength of this proposal is that it's an attempt to market green energy.
renewable energy sources are losing priority in grid access, but the initial assumption underlying this is overly optimistic, namely that the package will achieve 1% gdp growth across the european union.
this interferes with the energy basket, which should be a matter for the sovereign decision of the member states.
this limit, which the commission is proposing at 550 grams of co2 per kilowatt hour, prevents public support, but worse, prevents public support for clean coal energy, which is the only way for countries like poland to achieve their climate goals and should not be penalized for it.
‒ the cultural and creative industries have the potential to contribute to alleviating the current economic and employment challenges in the european union and to promoting sustainable growth that is conducive to social inclusion and innovation.
finally, it is essential to improve the investment environment and to broaden the range of financial instruments available to businesses, while promoting mixed financing, in particular in the form of public-private partnerships.
a number of speakers have referred to the need to ensure sustainable production, and i want to agree with mr ropė when he identifies small farmers as being central to the future of sustainable agricultural production and sustainable rural communities in europe.
we need to ensure that farmers, who are our boots on the ground in the context of implementing environment and climate action, continue to be the custodians of our policy in our rural areas, and also the custodians of our rural environment.
migration, security - both internal and external - energy security, the economy and employment are de facto key issues at the moment.
in addition, the agreement includes a chapter on trade and sustainable development, which includes ambitious provisions on labour and environmental protection and aims to guarantee predictable and stable environmental conditions for investors and operators on both sides.
the research funded covers production processes, resource recovery and conservation, environmental improvement and occupational safety in the relevant sectors.
the research funded covers production processes, resource recovery and conservation, environmental improvement and occupational safety in the relevant sectors.
the research funded covers production processes, resource recovery and conservation, environmental improvement and occupational safety in the relevant sectors.
i am deeply convinced that development and human rights are interdependent and that respect for and protection of human rights are essential to reducing inequalities and achieving the sustainable development goals for all people.
i therefore believe that the european union must fight with full energy and determination for the respect of universal human rights in the world.
‒ the european union today faces unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, and organised crime.
here too, we need to do more to protect data and ensure that we have a secure and sustainable access to the network.
however, price volatility is increasingly affected by factors such as the instability and imperfection of agricultural markets, greater supply volatility due to climate instability, and fragile food supply imbalances.
a more explicit and coherent policy strategy, with targeted instruments at union and national level, is therefore necessary to ensure a multifunctional, sustainable agricultural production across the union.
in particular, further development of climate, health and economic risk management instruments, in particular the different types of agricultural production insurance or individual reserve and mutual investment fund mechanisms, is necessary to limit the effects of price volatility and to support future farm management.
madam president, commissioner, the greek economy has been in crisis for eight years, being unable to return to sustainable growth.
the 2015 annual statistics show that the majority of petitioners turn to parliament for help on matters relating to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights.