too many fish aggregating devices are still being used in tuna fishing without a serious environmental impact study being carried out.
the biomass of this species has been showing a positive trend since 2008. in 2014, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas decided to increase the tac by 20% for the subsequent 3 years from 2015 to 2017. we, for our part, support criticism of a system of fishing quotas which penalizes the more sustainable small-scale fisheries to the benefit of the large shipowners of the main european fishing powers.
first, let me underline again that the commission did not ignore any signals before: neither in 2006 when we worked on a proposal for euro 5/6 in order to bring emissions down – although this was for laboratory testing, and that has to be stressed – nor in 2011 and 2012 when it was the jrc, not anybody else, who indicated for the first time that there is a problem with the real driving emissions.
to make things very clear: if we do not have rules in place by 2017, we will maintain this situation with 4-5 times higher emissions in real driving – in real life – and have 4-5 times more pollution.
rejection implies that we will not have rules in 2017, and we will have to explain to our citizens why we now have 500 mg/km of nox emissions and have not done anything to reduce it to 168 mg/km.
you can take this as my personal commitment too, and the second one is that we will adopt the reinforced type approval system on real driving emissions.
i hope that this will allow you – or at least some of you – to cast a positive vote on the proposals on real driving emissions in the next 2 or 3 weeks’ time.
the european commission has been working for several years to develop a more reliable process for measuring nitric oxide emissions to reflect those under real driving conditions.
the developments surrounding the volkswagen emissions-manipulation scandal only confirm this fact.
emissions 50% above the previously set limits.
the commission's stated environmental ambition is thus at the doorstep of the vast interests of the multinational car companies.
but it is essential that they move forward in ways that ensure adequate protection of the environment and public health, and not the protection of the interests of multinationals against the people and the environment.
in addition, they have very little impact on marine ecosystems, thanks to their low level of energy consumption and bycatch.
we also support the criticism of a system of fishing quotas which penalizes small-scale fishing, which is more sustainable, for the benefit of the large shipowners of the main european fishing powers, and we therefore voted in favour of the amendment.
in the tuna fishery, too many fish aggregating devices are still being used without a serious environmental impact study.
we, for our part, support the criticism of a system of fishing quotas which penalizes small-scale, more sustainable fishing, to the benefit of the large shipowners of the main european fishing powers.
we also support the criticism of a system of fishing quotas which penalizes small-scale fishing, which is more sustainable, for the benefit of the large shipowners of the main european fishing powers, and we therefore voted in favour of the amendment.
i also want to vote in favour of social cohesion and sustainable development based on price stability and balanced economic growth.
an effective and credible competition policy must take into account the strategic interests of the european economy, such as: the capacity to innovate; investment; competitiveness and sustainability; the special conditions of competition for smes, start-ups and micro-enterprises and the promotion of high social and environmental standards.
in this respect, i welcome the fact that this report recognises that intercultural learning plays a key role in sustainable progress in the field of active citizenship.
i believe that in order to increase market stability, enable non-bank financing, invest in the real economy and provide sustainable long-term growth, the european union must absorb the lessons learned during the crisis.
creating an investment-friendly environment, broadening access to finance and unlocking investment is key to our goal of sustainable economic growth.
indeed, it is widely recognised that in order to restore growth and create new jobs, the european union needs more entrepreneurs and its strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth (europe 2020) explicitly states that more concrete policy initiatives are needed to develop european entrepreneurship.
‒ the european union, with the aim of reviving economic growth and creating new jobs, has adopted concrete policy initiatives to develop european entrepreneurship in the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ the development of individual skills and the dissemination of knowledge and skills are one of the main elements of employment policies, allowing to generate sustainable growth, promote competitiveness and combat unemployment.
the report in question, which i voted in favour of, recognises the efforts of the european commission and the member states and calls for further action, specifically referring to the need for effective support for socially responsible, green and sustainable business projects.
considering that the lack of skills relevant to the jobs available and the inadequacy of education and training are important factors causing unemployment among young people and that without the creation of quality, sustainable and efficient jobs in europe, the youth employment crisis cannot be solved, it is therefore of great relevance to strengthen european efforts in creating mechanisms to promote youth employment in europe.
i support the kallas/gebhardt report, which follows up on the digital single market strategy presented by the european commission, with the aim of creating a connected digital single market, creating new jobs, an environment where digital networks and services can thrive, with better online access to digital products and services and looking at digital as a growth engine.
the digital single market strategy is divided into three parts: -access: better access for consumers and businesses to digital goods and services across europe; -environment: creating the right conditions and a level playing field for digital networks and innovative services to thrive; - the economy and society: maximising the growth potential of the digital economy it is important that the eu budget, national budgets and the legislative framework allow the implementation of this strategy.
much stronger recovery means, to start with, an ambitious strategy for growth and jobs, updating europe 2020 and making the best use of the energy transition and the digital revolution.
at the same time, innovation and job creation will benefit from the leadership taken in delivering the paris climate agenda and from the commitment to the energy tradition and the digital revolution.
‒ the proposal for a regulation on gas appliances aims to replace directive 2009/142/ec by harmonising the conditions for placing gas appliances on the market and/or putting them into service with regard to safety risks and the rational use of energy, and to ensure that clear rules for the gas appliance sector are applied uniformly throughout the union.
i support the stihler report because i consider that the provisions introduced as a result of alignment with the decision on the new legislative framework are satisfactory and that the changes introduced to enhance consumer safety, such as avoiding carbon monoxide poisoning of people (which is the main cause of death in europe related to gas appliances), enrich the new legislative text.
it is essential that such appliances do not compromise the necessary guarantee of a high level of protection of health and safety of persons and ensure the protection of consumers and goods as well as the rational use of energy.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i voted in favour of this report because it provides for the strengthening of precautionary measures to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning by inhalation, one of the main causes of death in europe related to gas appliances.
the replacement of the previous directive is a further step towards the deepening of the single market towards greater legislative harmonisation in the context of the conditions for the placing on the market and the operation of such appliances, in particular with regard to the implementation of higher requirements as regards their safety and the rational use of energy.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
it is essential that such appliances do not compromise the necessary guarantee of a high level of protection of the public interest, in particular the health and safety of persons and domestic animals, the guarantee of the protection of consumers and of property and the guarantee of the rational use of energy.
i therefore consider that this directive is an example of harmonisation of european union legislation, which will not only guarantee the free movement of gas appliances, but will also allow for full harmonisation of the conditions for placing on the market and/or putting into service of gas appliances within its scope, with regard to gas-related safety risks and the rational use of energy.
it is essential that such appliances do not compromise the necessary guarantee of a high level of protection of the public interest, in particular the health and safety of persons and domestic animals, the guarantee of the protection of consumers and of property and the guarantee of the rational use of energy.
however, member states remain competent to regulate other aspects of cable installations, such as land use, land use planning and environmental protection.
i voted in favour of this report because, while it ensures uniform application throughout the union, it also allows member states to continue to regulate aspects of cable installations (land use, land use planning and environmental protection).
‒ the gsp consists of a general scheme and two special schemes, including the special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), under which no duties will be charged on imports of more than 6 000 tariff lines from beneficiary countries.
‒ pursuant to article 10 (4) of regulation (eu) no 978/2012, the commission may adopt delegated acts to establish or amend annex iii in order to grant the requesting country the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (sgp+) by adding that country to the list of gsp+ beneficiary countries.
‒ the gsp consists of a general scheme and two special schemes, including the special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), under which no duties will be charged on imports of more than 6 000 tariff lines from beneficiary countries.
the reservations and shortcomings listed in this objection report lack any factual support and therefore, on the basis of the principle of 'change through approximation', i consider that the entry of this country into the gsp+ will represent for the union an additional form of pressure, control and monitoring of the implementation of the 28 conventions on human rights, labour rights and environmental protection.
‒ regulation (eu) no 609/2013 in part 3 of annex i allows 30% of the energy in baby food to be obtained from sugar (7.5 g sugar/100 kcal equals 30 kcal provided by sugar for every 100 kcal of energy) contrary to the health recommendations of the world health organisation, which advises significant reductions in total sugar consumption.
in the delegated act concerned, the commission proposes to accept that 30% of the energy contained in food comes from sugars, whereas the who recommends a maximum of 10%, with 5% being the ideal.
in addition, the delegated regulation allows 30% of the energy in baby food to be obtained from sugar, which is contrary to all health recommendations of the world health organisation and the scientific committees of the member states, which advise significant reductions in total sugar consumption, which is likely to contribute to increased levels of childhood obesity and which may affect the development of food preferences of children in the long term.
the eu and colombia have established a framework of close political, economic and trade cooperation not only to strengthen economic and trade relations between the parties, but also to strengthen peace, democracy, respect for human rights, sustainable development and the well-being of citizens.
‒ the eu's special ties with colombia have allowed for the establishment of a framework of close political, economic and trade cooperation, established by the november 2009 memorandum of understanding and the trade agreement between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other (signed in june 2012, to which ecuador has in the meantime decided to accede, negotiations with the latter having been concluded in july 2014), the aim of which was not only to strengthen economic and trade relations between the parties, but also to strengthen peace, democracy, respect for human rights, sustainable development and the well-being of citizens.
the identification of the impact of industrial society on climate change is not new.
basically, industrial society has released into the atmosphere, in a very short period of time, the carbon that has been sequestered by forests for millions of years and that has been the guarantor of life on the planet.
i've heard oil company ceos refer to oil, to fossil fuels, as "solar stored energy", confusing and distracting.
quoting pope francis' recent encyclical: "...the social and environmental responsibility of companies is, in most cases, reduced to a series of publicity and image actions".
it covers a number of areas, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, and the establishment of a framework for cooperation in areas such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs.
- i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european atomic energy union and kosovo.
‒ the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement provides for a strengthened political dialogue, greater trade integration and new methods of cooperation in a number of sectors, including respect for democratic principles and human rights, education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs.
it covers a number of areas, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, the definition of a framework for cooperation in areas such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs, and includes provisions to promote european standards in areas such as competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection.
it covers a number of sectors, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, and the establishment of a framework for cooperation in sectors such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs.
the agreement provides for a strengthening of contractual relations and political dialogue between the european union and kosovo, greater trade integration and new forms of cooperation, covering a wide range of sectors, from education to energy, environmental protection, justice and home affairs.
‒ the developments surrounding the volkswagen scandal, concerning the manipulation of data on light vehicle emissions, once again show that we are facing a european commission gripped by lobbies, in this case the automobile industry lobby, one of the most powerful in the eu institutions, influencing legislative proposals and leaving their indelible mark on them.
following a warning from the us environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) that the volkswagen group had violated pollution standards and recent data showing a large discrepancy between nitrous oxide emissions measured under laboratory conditions and under normal driving conditions, the european parliament approved the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and maladministration in the application of eu law in this area, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national courts.
- i have given my approval to the composition of the members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector.
under this regulation, the committee of inquiry is to investigate the alleged failure of the commission to comply with the obligation to review the test cycles used to measure emissions and the alleged failure of the commission and the member states authorities to provide for measures to control and prohibit tampering devices, to introduce tests that reflect real driving conditions and to lay down provisions on applicable penalties, ensuring that applicable penalties are enforced.
‒ part of the european automotive sector has set a bad example of what the role of companies should be in tackling climate change and pollution in general.
whether it's environmental or social or economic, it's essential that we go beyond the law.
emissions 50% above the previously set limits.
but it is essential that they move forward in ways that ensure adequate protection of the environment and public health and not the protection of the interests of multinationals against the people and the environment.
‒ the developments surrounding the volkswagen scandal, concerning the manipulation of data on light vehicle emissions, are a clear example of a european commission gripped by lobbies, in this case the automotive industry lobby, one of the most powerful in the eu institutions, influencing legislative proposals and leaving their indelible mark on them.
following a warning from the us environmental protection agency (epa) and the california air resources board (carb) that the volkswagen group had violated pollution standards and recent data showing a large discrepancy between nitrous oxide emissions measured under laboratory conditions and under normal driving conditions, the european parliament approved the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and maladministration in the application of eu law in this area, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of national courts.
i agree that the success of these efforts depends on many factors, such as a stable political environment, strategic reflection, concrete reform plans and a good use of international financial and technical support.
the success of these efforts depends on many factors, such as a stable political environment, strategic reflection, concrete reform plans and the good use of international financial and technical support.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas of the environment.
‒ the european union is facing numerous challenges today, ranging from the humanitarian crisis of the wave of asylum applications, to climate change, to the fight against terrorism, which require concerted action and enhanced cooperation from the union.
the annual statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to parliament for help on issues relating to justice, the environment, the internal market and fundamental rights.
these figures correspond to an increase of around 10% compared to 2013. the most pressing issues addressed in the petitions concern environmental legislation (water and waste management, oil and gas exploration and extraction, and major infrastructure and development projects); fundamental rights (in particular children's rights and the rights of persons with disabilities); the free movement of persons, discrimination, immigration, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations; animal welfare, the administration of justice and the social inclusion of persons with disabilities.
in 2014, 1887 petitions were closed, of which 1070 were declared inadmissible; these figures correspond to an increase of around 10% compared to the year 2013. the most pressing issues addressed in the petitions concern environmental legislation, fundamental rights, free movement of persons, discrimination, immigration, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations, animal welfare, the administration of justice and the social inclusion of people with disabilities.
these figures correspond to an increase of around 10% compared to the year 2013. the most pressing issues addressed in the petitions concern environmental legislation, fundamental rights, free movement of persons, discrimination, immigration, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) negotiations, animal welfare, the administration of justice and the social inclusion of people with disabilities.
for this policy is not sustainable it betrays our values and principles and in fact fosters instability because it leads to injustice and despair and could lead the ethiopian people to a violent insurrection.
madam president, the fragmentation and alteration of habitats, the overexploitation of natural resources, the introduction and spread of invasive alien species and climate change are some of the key factors that have led to the loss of biodiversity.
the european union's biodiversity strategy is far from meeting the challenges we face.
not only must the means to deal with the loss of biodiversity be strengthened, but also a set of sectoral policies that affect biodiversity must be changed, rural abandonment must be halted and reversed, agricultural production must be intensified and homogenised, invasive alien species must be prevented and combated, the european union must be given greater responsibility for financing the natura 2000 network by creating a specific financial instrument dedicated to its management, the life programme must be substantially strengthened, at least 1% of the european union budget must be devoted to it.
undocumented work harms the union economy, jeopardises the financial sustainability of social protection systems, generates unfair competition by distorting market laws, leads to a lack of social and labour protection for workers and often has a cross-border dimension.
- i support the report by mr la via on the strengthening of the fight against heavy metal pollution.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control man-made emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere.
it aims to reduce annual emissions of the three metals to levels below those recorded in 1990. as the rapporteur points out, the protocol aims to reduce emissions from industrial sources (iron and steel, non-ferrous metals), combustion processes (industry, electricity generation, road transport) and waste incineration.
the amended protocol sets stricter limit values for dust emissions which need to be transposed by a new directive.
i agree with the rapporteur that ratification of the amendment will be an important step towards better protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution, especially as regards heavy metals.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution.
to date, the scope of the convention has been extended by eight protocols identifying specific measures to be taken by parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants.
the amended protocol sets, inter alia, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources, as well as flexible transitional provisions that should benefit future parties to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including countries in eastern and south-eastern europe.
the ratification of the amendment will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead (pb), cadmium (cd) and mercury (hg) into the atmosphere.
it requires parties to reduce their total annual emissions of the three metals indicated to levels below those recorded in 1990 or in an alternate year between 1985 and 1995. the protocol aims to reduce emissions from industrial sources (iron and steel, non-ferrous metals), combustion processes (industry, electricity generation, road transport) and waste incineration.
the amended protocol sets, inter alia, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources, as well as flexible transitional provisions that should benefit future parties to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including countries in eastern and south-eastern europe.
the amendment to the protocol is already covered by eu legislation, but it still needs to be transposed through a new directive that will update national emission limit values for certain air pollutants and provide for national inventories of annual emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, among others.
the ratification of the amendment will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
- i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the 1998 amendment to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution protocol on heavy metals.
given that several studies have shown that air pollutants can travel thousands of kilometres before being deposited, it is important that the problems caused by air pollution are addressed at international level.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, signed in 1979 and in force since 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument on the protection of the human environment from air pollution.
this convention has created the framework for controlling and reducing harm to human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury into the atmosphere.
the amendment to the protocol is already covered by european union legislation, but it still needs to be transposed by a new directive which will update national emission limit values for certain air pollutants and provide for national inventories of annual emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, among others.
i believe that ratification will make it possible to protect human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead (pb), cadmium (cd) and mercury (hg) into the atmosphere.
it requires parties to reduce their total annual emissions of those metals to levels below those recorded in 1990 or in an alternate year between 1985 and 1995. the protocol aims to reduce emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and waste incineration.
the amendment to the protocol, already covered by eu legislation, will still have to be transposed by a new directive which will update national emission limit values for certain air pollutants, providing for national inventories of annual emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, among others.
it is therefore necessary to address the problems caused by air pollution at international level.
the report approves the amendment of the protocol on long-range transboundary air pollution relating to heavy metals under the 1979 convention.
it has now been extended by eight protocols identifying specific measures to be taken by the parties concerned to reduce their emissions of air pollutants.
it sets, inter alia, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources, as well as flexible transitional provisions that should benefit future parties to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including countries in eastern and south-eastern europe.
- i voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation which aims to amend the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, relating to heavy metals.
this convention was the first legally binding international instrument that created the framework for monitoring and minimising health and environmental data from air pollution.
however, the scope of the convention has been extended by a set of eight protocols which identify specific measures to be taken by the parties to reduce emissions of air pollutants.
the review, which builds on those decisions, sets out, inter alia, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain fixed sources, as well as other provisions that should benefit future parties to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including countries in eastern and south-western europe.
the amendment in question is fully in line with existing european legislation and will constitute an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead (pb), cadmium (cd) and mercury (hg) into the atmosphere.
it requires parties to reduce their total annual emissions of the three metals indicated to levels below those recorded in 1990 or in an alternate year between 1985 and 1995. the protocol aims to reduce emissions from industrial sources (iron and steel, non-ferrous metals), combustion processes (industry, electricity generation, road transport) and waste incineration.
the amendment to the protocol is already covered by eu legislation, but it still needs to be transposed through a new directive that will update national emission limit values for certain air pollutants and provide for national inventories of annual emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury, among others.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants.
the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates to the implementation requirements for several substances, restrictions to the updates for several emissions and extends the list of substances affected by the restrictions to total annual emissions and subject to the reporting obligation.
specific derogations and flexible transition timetables for economies in transition should enable all parties to comply with the essential protocol for a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment against air pollution.
the convention, signed in 1979 and in force since 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument in this field and established the framework for controlling and reducing the harm to human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
to date, the scope of the convention has been extended by eight protocols which identify specific measures to be taken by signatory parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants.
the ratification of the amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
the problems caused by air pollution must therefore be addressed at international level.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was the first legally binding international instrument in this field, creating a framework to control and reduce the harm to human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants (pops).
it requires parties to phase out the production and use of relevant substances, to restrict the use of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclohexanes (hch) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), and to reduce their total annual emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (pahs), dioxins/furans (pcdd/pcdfs) and hexachlorobenzene (hcbs) to levels below 1990 or an alternative year between 1985 and 1995. the parties shall ensure that operators of major fixed emission sources use best available techniques (bat).
the ratification of the amendments will be an important step towards greater protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, signed in 1979 and in force since 1983, was the first legally binding international instrument on the protection of the human environment from air pollution.
this convention has created the framework for controlling and reducing harm to human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants (pops).
the amendments to the protocol are already broadly covered by eu legislation and will be subsequently transposed by a new directive which will update national emission limit values for certain air pollutants and provide for national inventories of annual emissions covering pops.
i believe that ratification will make it possible to protect human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
for this reason, the consequences of air pollution must be addressed at international level.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was the first legally binding international instrument in this field, creating a framework to control and reduce the harm to human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants (pops) aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of those pollutants.
it requires parties to abolish the production and use of relevant substances, to restrict the use of ddts, hchs and pcbs, and to reduce their total annual emissions of pahs, pcdd/pcdfs and hcbs to below 1990 levels or an alternative year between 1985 and 1995. the parties shall ensure that operators of major fixed emission sources use best available techniques.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i consider it an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
this ratification of the 1998 protocol on long-range transboundary pollution from persistent organic pollutants (pops) requires operators of the main fixed emission sources to use the best available techniques; certain waste incineration plants to comply with emission limit values; effective measures to control pop emissions from mobile sources to be taken; and pops to be transported and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner once they have been converted into waste.
the scope of the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has been extended by eight protocols which identify specific measures to be taken by signatory parties with the aim of reducing their emissions of air pollutants.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants.
i am convinced that the amendments are fully in line with current european legislation and that their ratification will be a step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution, so i voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation.
‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants (pops).
it requires parties to phase out the production and use of relevant substances, to restrict the use of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (ddt), hexachlorocyclohexanes (hch) and polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), and to reduce their total annual emissions of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (pahs), dioxins/furans (pcdd/pcdfs) and hexachlorobenzene (hcbs) to levels below 1990 or an alternative year between 1985 and 1995. the current amendments to the protocol are already largely covered by eu legislation and will be further transposed by a new directive updating national emission limit values for certain air pollutants and providing for national annual emission inventories.
‒ i support the creation of the european platform to strengthen cooperation in the fight against undeclared work, given that it is harmful to the union's economy, creates unfair competition, undermines the financial sustainability of the union's social models and results in a growing lack of social and labour protection for workers.
‒ the european target of halting biodiversity loss was not met in 2010. the eu responded by drawing up a new strategy in 2011, with heads of state and government setting the central objective of ending biodiversity loss and the deterioration of ecosystem services, restoring them, as far as possible, by 2020 and stepping up eu efforts to prevent the degradation of global biodiversity.
according to 2015 figures, we are far from achieving the proposed targets, and political will is needed to put biodiversity at the top of the agenda.
i support the demesmaeker report, because i believe that more measures are needed to protect biodiversity, to build a smart, sustainable and environmentally conscious europe, and that member states should be more effective in implementing european environmental legislation.
‒ biodiversity is under enormous pressure, globally and in europe.
habitat changes, pollution, over-exploitation, invasive alien species and climate change are the main causes of biodiversity loss.
the loss of biodiversity is particularly harmful and entails losses for nature, for humanity and for the economy: it threatens essential ecosystem services and compromises the earth's natural capacity to respond to new challenges.
biodiversity and nature must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe, and i agree with the call for greater political will to genuinely end biodiversity loss.
the goal of halting biodiversity loss failed in 2010. the 2011 strategy set a new global goal: to halt the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of "ecosystem services", and to restore them "to the extent possible by 2020".
the report calls for better enforcement of the relevant legislation to halt biodiversity loss, in particular the habitats and birds directives (rejecting their revision and weakening them).
these are proposals for additional measures to the commission and the member states to halt biodiversity loss.
this mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy aims not only to strengthen the measures and programmes implemented, particularly with regard to the birds and habitats directives, but also to extend them to other strategic areas of the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
it is developed around six specific objectives and assumes biodiversity loss as a political priority.
‒ the loss of biodiversity has become alarming.
species are disappearing at a dizzying rate; habitat changes, pollution, over-exploitation, invasive alien species and climate change are the main drivers of biodiversity loss.
i argue that biodiversity is paramount to our health and well-being as well as to economic prosperity.
i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for greater political will to genuinely address biodiversity loss as a political priority and for a multilateral approach in which regional and local actors have a special role to play.
i am in favour of better enforcement and monitoring of existing legislation to stop the loss of biodiversity, which must be seen as a real european objective.
i also agree with the rapporteur that biodiversity and nature must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe and that we need more political will to put a genuine end to biodiversity loss.
‒ the objective of halting biodiversity loss failed in 2010. the 2011 strategy set a new global goal: to halt the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of "ecosystem services", and to restore them "to the extent possible by 2020".
this report calls for better enforcement of the relevant legislation - notably the habitats and birds directives (rejecting their revision, weakening them) - and proposes additional measures to the commission and member states to halt biodiversity loss.
‒ biodiversity, the unique variety of ecosystems, habitats, species and genes on earth, of which humanity is also a part, has immeasurable intrinsic value and is under enormous pressure, globally and in europe, as species are becoming extinct at a staggering rate and largely due to human activity.
habitat change, pollution, over-exploitation, invasive alien species and climate change are the main causes of biodiversity loss which is particularly harmful and entails losses for nature, for humanity and for the economy.
the european objective of halting biodiversity loss was not met in 2010, and the eu responded by developing a new strategy in 2011. the heads of state and government have set the central objective of ending biodiversity loss and the deterioration of ecosystem services, restoring them as far as possible by 2020 and stepping up eu efforts to prevent the degradation of global biodiversity, and i therefore voted in favour of this mid-term review.
‒ biodiversity has in itself an invaluable intrinsic value and must therefore be protected for the benefit of present and future generations.
the progressive trend of biodiversity loss is alarming and urgent political priority needs to be given to environmental issues, while not neglecting the crucial role of regional and local actors in the process, with a view to meeting the eu biodiversity targets.
in europe, close to a quarter of wild species are threatened with extinction and many of our ecosystems are severely degraded, causing enormous environmental, territorial, social and economic damage to the eu.
i therefore believe that it is essential to promote greater public awareness and to encourage greater investment in these areas, particularly in terms of the preservation and conservation of biodiversity.
the preservation of biodiversity is a concern that must be present in all union policies with a direct or indirect impact on the terrestrial and marine environment.
the evaluation of the european biodiversity strategy is an opportunity to correct where necessary and to assess what needs to be done.
it is necessary to strengthen the means at our disposal for better implementation, to ensure that all sectoral policies incorporate biodiversity objectives and to rethink new areas of action to avoid fragmentation and to enhance the pursuit of these objectives.
‒ the european objective of halting biodiversity loss was not achieved in 2010. so the heads of state or government, by drawing up a new strategy in 2011, set a new global target to halt biodiversity loss and degradation of 'ecosystem services', to restore them 'as far as possible by 2020', and to step up eu efforts to prevent the degradation of global biodiversity.
in 2015, it became clear that without significant additional efforts, the eu will once again fail to achieve its agreed biodiversity targets in 2020. the report therefore focuses on the target-by-target biodiversity strategy, calling for better implementation of all relevant legislation to halt biodiversity loss, mainly through the habitat and birds directives.
the report opposes any revision of the nature directives as this could jeopardise the implementation of the biodiversity strategy and states that the ongoing refit review of the nature directives should focus on improving their implementation and enforcement, proposing additional measures that the commission and member states should take into account to halt biodiversity loss.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy because it agrees that biodiversity and nature must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe, and because it calls for greater political will to genuinely end the loss of biodiversity as an essential measure for nature itself and for the health and well-being of our children and grandchildren.
the committee also agrees with the rapporteur that the development of a trans-european network of green infrastructure (ten-t) could create a win-win situation for nature and the economy; advocates a european framework for preventing the loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services; calls for the commission to develop specific criteria for the 'natural capital financing facility' which should ensure that projects produce tangible positive results for biodiversity; by arguing that the decline in bee numbers requires more research and action, in establishing the link between health and biodiversity; and finally by believing that nature-based solutions can make a significant contribution to addressing challenges such as climate change.
i therefore call for the urgent launch of a comprehensive plan to strengthen the union's external border, launched at the same time as a plan to resume the sustainable development priorities of the european area.
mr president, the european commission is carrying out an unspeakable operation of pressure and blackmail aimed at influencing the portuguese state budget for 2016. with an arrogance of colonial cutbacks, they want to perpetuate the path that the portuguese rejected in the last elections, the same path of impoverishment, exploitation, waste.
‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
- i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of tariff preferences in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission should submit without delay a legislative proposal that respects the right of member states and the will of consumers to oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the risks to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health, as the safety of gm products in food and feed cannot be guaranteed in a scientifically credible manner.
i believe that the european union must ensure the protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and the interests of consumers, particularly with regard to genetically modified food and feed.
the commission should submit without delay a legislative proposal that respects the right of member states and the will of consumers to oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the risks to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health, as the safety of gm products in food and feed cannot be guaranteed in a scientifically credible manner.
the commission should submit without delay a legislative proposal that respects the right of member states and the will of consumers to oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the risks to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health, as the safety of gm products in food and feed cannot be guaranteed in a scientifically credible manner.
food and environmental health and safety cannot be left out of the picture in matters of this kind.
i believe that the european union must ensure the protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and the interests of consumers, particularly with regard to genetically modified food and feed.
the commission should submit without delay a legislative proposal that respects the right of member states and the will of consumers to oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the risks to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health, as the safety of gm products in food and feed cannot be guaranteed in a scientifically credible manner.
the commission should submit without delay a legislative proposal that respects the right of member states and the will of consumers to oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the risks to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health, as the safety of gm products in food and feed cannot be guaranteed in a scientifically credible manner.
i believe that the eu must ensure the protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and the interests of consumers, particularly with regard to genetically modified food and feed.
the commission should submit without delay a legislative proposal that respects the right of member states and the will of consumers to oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the risks to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health, as the safety of gm products in food and feed cannot be guaranteed in a scientifically credible manner.
‒ i am well aware that air pollution causes more than 430 000 premature deaths in the union each year and has an estimated cost of €940 billion due to its effects on health, and that exhaust emissions from diesel vehicles are a major source of nox in urban areas in europe and that, according to the european environment agency, nox emissions are the cause of 75 000 premature deaths in europe.
to achieve the eu's air quality objectives, a continuous effort to reduce vehicle emissions is needed, including a considerable reduction in nitrogen oxide emissions from vehicles equipped with diesel engines.
i am sensitive to the argument of the committee on the environment that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 715/2007 and may be contrary to union law as it is not compatible with the objective and content of that regulation.
‒ the measure proposed by the european commission is part of the second package on real driving emissions testing, which sets emission limits to be respected and dates for their application to new models and vehicles.
in the current legal framework, vehicle emissions are determined on the basis of test cycles carried out in laboratories, which do not reflect vehicle emissions under normal driving conditions.
the commission has been developing procedures to determine vehicle emissions under real driving conditions, including the use of portable emission measurement systems.
‒ following a meeting with the technical committee on motor vehicles on 28/10/2015, the european commission presented a proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards pollutant emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles.
this new proposal introduces a temporary compliance factor of 2,1 resulting in nox emissions of 168 mg/km in the real driving test applicable to all new passenger vehicles from 9/2019 (new types and vehicles 09/2017) and a final compliance factor of 1,5 which would be applicable to all new vehicles from 2021, allowing these vehicles to emit around 120 mg/km of nox in the red test.
‒ i voted against the objection under rule 106: emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) it is important to require manufacturers to ensure, at the time of type-approval and throughout the lifetime of the vehicle, that the emissions produced during an ecr test do not exceed the limit values.
i voted against the motion for a resolution because the commission has drawn up a new draft implementing measure with the aim of amending the regulation by adapting the test procedures so that they adequately reflect the emissions generated in real driving conditions on the road.
i also regard it as extremely positive that manufacturers are required, at the time of type approval and throughout the life of the vehicle, to ensure that the emissions produced during an ecr test do not exceed certain limit values.
‒ following a meeting with the technical committee on motor vehicles on 28/10/2015, the european commission presented a proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards pollutant emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles.
this new proposal introduces a temporary compliance factor of 2,1 resulting in nox emissions of 168 mg/km in the real driving test applicable to all new passenger vehicles from 9/2019 (new types and vehicles 09/2017) and a final compliance factor of 1,5 which would be applicable to all new vehicles from 2021, allowing these vehicles to emit around 120 mg/km of nox in the red test.
‒ taking into account regulation (ec) no 715/2007 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 june 2007 on type-approval of motor vehicles with respect to emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 5 and euro 6) and on access to vehicle repair and maintenance information, the commission has drawn up a new draft implementing measure with the aim of amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 by adapting the test procedures so that they adequately reflect emissions generated by real driving conditions on the road.
‒ air pollution causes more than 430 000 premature deaths in the european union each year and has an estimated cost of around eur 940 billion due to its harmful effects on public health.
to meet the reality these figures reflect, and in line with eu air quality objectives, a continued effort to reduce vehicle emissions is needed.
to that end, and given the need for brands to ensure, at the time of type-approval and throughout the lifetime of the vehicle, that the emissions produced do not exceed certain limit values, it is necessary to adopt measures to ensure the effectiveness of the emission control systems of vehicles.
the european commission has therefore proposed new implementing measures to amend the regulation by adapting the test procedures to reflect emissions generated under real-world conditions.
because appropriate regulation is indispensable and urgent in this area, i voted against this motion for an objection because i consider that the commission's proposal to adapt the test procedures allows them to adequately reflect the emissions generated in real driving conditions on the road.
‒ following a meeting with the technical committee on motor vehicles on 28/10/2015, the commission has drawn up a proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards pollutant emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles.
the resolution calls for the proposal to be withdrawn and for a new regulation to be submitted without delay, which would provide for real-world emissions testing and be in line with regulation (ec) no 715/2007.
in writing ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution objecting under rule 106 to the draft resolution amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles, because i consider that the commission has exceeded its powers in the process and as a sign of disagreement with the recent behaviour of the council in this matter.
i would, however, like to stress the evolution of the european commission's position on real driving tests and the application of factor 1 compliance until 2023, and i hope that we can continue to work towards a path that guarantees the confidence and competitiveness of the european automobile industry and safeguards the health of citizens and the preservation of the environment.
this agreement is not intended to protect public services, compliance with the conventions of the international labour organisation, environmental protection, data protection and the right to privacy.
i am sure that this agreement will give european companies more opportunities to provide services to/in third countries without compromising public services, data and consumer protection, as well as high labour and environmental standards, and i voted in favour of it.
i therefore want to encourage the dutch presidency to follow up on the commitments it has made here and to take concrete initiatives, not only to convince the member states to sign this convention, but also to ensure that these new rules apply to the energy charter treaty, whose dispute settlement system is in dire need of more transparency.
progress made by serbia in the business environment, in reducing the budget deficit and in the labour market, notably in terms of labour law and employment policy, deserves a mention, as does progress in economic reforms, which have improved the country's fiscal situation.
the serbian government's continued commitment to the european integration process is noteworthy, with the launch of an ambitious programme of progressive reforms covering the business environment, the reduction of the budget deficit and the labour market.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i welcome this report, which contains essential considerations for the development of this process, particularly with regard to the rule of law, democracy, human rights, respect for and protection of minorities, regional cooperation, good neighbourly relations, energy, the environment and transport.
progress is noted with regard to the conclusion of agreements in the framework of the normalisation process between kosovo and serbia, in particular on the establishment of the association/community of serb-majority municipalities in kosovo, on energy, on the mitrovicë/mitrovica bridge, on telecommunications, on car insurance and on the judicial system.
i agree that the commission should be asked to carry out a thorough study of the additional costs incurred by the characteristics of insularity in terms of the transport system for people and goods, energy supply and access to markets, in particular for smes; i also agree with the need for better maritime connectivity, better access to ports and better air transport services.
the situation of agriculture, livestock and fisheries, the impacts of climate change, tourism, local production, the huge potential of wind, solar and ocean energy, the impact of the economic crisis, the investments in infrastructure needed to ensure broadband access on islands and the promotion of innovation and competitiveness in these regions are other measures to be taken into account.
‒ this resolution focuses on the particular situation of islands, as peripheral regions situated on the eu's external borders, being particularly susceptible to the constraints arising from globalisation, demography (very significant depopulation), climate change, energy supply and the migration crisis.
it is extremely important that the eu establishes a strategic framework for islands with the aim of ensuring their sustainable development.
i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that it is necessary to improve maritime connectivity, to increase the development of ports and air transport services, and to promote the development of sustainable tourism, in addition to seasonal tourism, focusing on the promotion of cultural heritage and specific artisanal economic activities.
it should also be noted that the islands have been experiencing strong climate change, including an increasing number of natural disasters, and have a strong potential for renewable energy and investments in the maritime economy.
‒ the special situation of islands, peripheral regions situated on the eu's external borders, which are more susceptible to the constraints of globalisation, demographic fluctuations, climate change, energy supply or the migration crisis, is highlighted.
firstly, i voted in favour of this resolution because it refers to a set of measures which are crucial for island regions: greater maritime connectivity, better access to ports; better air services; low taxes and policies to reduce red tape as key incentives to attract investment; the development of sustainable tourism; and creating synergies between the european structural and investment funds and the other union instruments.
i therefore agree that the member states and regional and local authorities need to play an important role in the sustainable development strategies of the islands.
i therefore believe it is important to equate the existence of a european strategic framework for islands, which establishes synergies between the various financial instruments of the union, and a strengthening of the role of the member states and regional and local authorities, which respects the principle of subsidiarity and ensures their sustainable development, economic growth and job creation.
‒ the eu's cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period is the main investment instrument covering all eu regions, contributing to sustainable bottom-up growth by supporting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of local and regional economies, improving the quality of life of citizens and creating solidarity and greater development in eu regions.
i support this resolution which recognises the importance of these synergies and complementarities between the esi funds and other eu programmes, raising the role of local authorities in achieving this objective and recognising the various challenges facing regions such as globalisation, energy security, migratory flows, climate change and the intrinsic specificities of their territorial nature.
‒ eu cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period continues to be the main investment instrument covering all eu regions and an opportunity to create a sustainable growth process, supporting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of local and regional economies, improving the quality of life of citizens and creating solidarity and greater development in eu regions.
‒ the eu's cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period continues to be the main investment instrument covering all eu regions, and in which its bottom-up governance model has proven effective in the process of sustainable growth, supporting job creation, entrepreneurship and innovation at the level of local and regional economies.
local and regional authorities face many challenges, but they are best placed to deal with challenges such as globalisation, climate change or energy security, taking into account that each locality or region has its own specific needs and characteristics.
‒ the eu's cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 programming period continues to be the main investment instrument covering all eu regions and an opportunity to create a sustainable growth process in which the bottom-up approach is more pronounced.
this ensures the fulfilment of the eu's key policy objectives, such as economic growth, social progress and sustainable development.
acting at regional level as a mechanism of opportunity for a sustainable growth process, supporting job creation, entrepreneurship, economic innovation, the quality of life of citizens and the sustainable development of regions, the role of local and regional authorities in adapting and implementing eu strategies, cohesion policy is fundamental to an effective response to the unique needs and characteristics of each region.
economic growth, social progress, territorial cohesion and sustainable development are common objectives of the union which will become more feasible thanks to a plurality of governments at local and regional level, allowing the eu and each region to apply the instruments at their disposal effectively.
this interference in yemen's internal affairs has translated directly into airstrikes on yemen's infrastructure and indirectly into clashes between the warring factions, which have resulted in a climate of instability that is exploited by extremist and terrorist organisations such as the islamic state and al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula.
this aggression is aimed at imposing the dominance of imperialism in the middle east, crushing the yemeni sovereign claim and securing control of yemen's geostrategic position on the routes for the transport of energy raw materials, in particular the bab-el-mandeb strait.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the existing eu-wide framework for the protection of the environment to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the report on the social and employment aspects of the european semester aims to transform the european union into a modern social europe, taking into account the current potential and challenges, and highlights the concrete measures that need to be implemented to balance the economic and social dimensions and to promote sustainable social development.
the commission also proposes that the member states and the european institutions should ensure, in a responsible manner, the long-term stability of their policy and budgetary choices if we are to move towards sustainable growth.
the sustainability of social security and social welfare systems and pension schemes is perhaps the most paradigmatic example of this challenge, given the expected trend of an ageing european population in the coming years.
the starting point of our report is to say that the european semester should be used to pursue the rebalancing of our budgets and relevant reforms, but also to implement the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs, because we believe that, in the end, the future of europe will depend on this kind of competitiveness geared to the future, based on energy transition, digital solutions and bringing about more and better jobs.
we do, of course, also need reforms, but we believe that we need a second generation of reforms pushing for education, innovation and good public administration and ensuring sustainable welfare systems.
we affirm the need to break with these policies and instead strengthen the sovereignty of states and support development and sustainable economic growth by means of public control of strategic sectors, in work with rights and decent wages.
it advocates 'second-generation' structural reforms to boost growth potential, focusing on education and innovation, the sustainability of the social model, the modernisation of public administration and a fair and equitable tax system.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
its main objectives are to pursue structural reforms that promote employment and growth, sustainable fiscal policies and the prevention of macroeconomic imbalances.
sustainable growth can only be achieved through a combination of these three elements.
while this report has made some improvements over previous ones, seeking a better combination of investment policies, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility, emphasising the need for increased domestic demand and flexible monetary policies, the focus on the need for structural reforms and more competitive and flexible labour markets, always result in greater job insecurity and continuation of austerity policies, not leading to sustainable and quality growth.
i also consider the point in the resolution that 'effective implementation of structural reforms and greater coordination at european level to achieve a stronger economic recovery and sustainable and broadly shared prosperity' to be important, and i voted in favour of this resolution.
it advocates 'second-generation' structural reforms to boost growth potential, focusing on education and innovation, the sustainability of the social model, the modernisation of public administration and a fair and equitable tax system.
the economic priorities of the annual growth survey remain valid, but political efforts should be strengthened for 2016. i support the excellent report by mrs sofia ribeiro, which stresses the need to link the economic and social dimensions and sets out concrete measures to promote sustainable social development, which is transversal to all the union's policies, and proposes that it be monitored.
this desire cannot be dissociated from the promotion of sustainable growth leading to the creation of more jobs by stimulating entrepreneurship.
neither the commission's proposal nor that of the rapporteur is really aimed at creating quality jobs and sustainable growth.
only then can we enter a path of sustainable growth.
better and more options that invest and promote employment growth in a sustainable and responsible way are key.
this confirms the need to break with the neoliberal policies imposed by the eu and the imperative need to support economic and sustainable growth in living wages, work with rights, training and qualification of workers, including through public control of strategic sectors.
i would also like to stress the focus on creating quality jobs and creating the conditions for growth, which must be at the heart of the policies of the member states and the eu, particularly for young people and the over-55 generation, as a way of building more sustainable social economies.
this is not the way to sustainable and socially responsible growth market freedoms cannot take precedence over labour and social rights.
it seems to me therefore essential to complete the single market without delay in order to achieve structural and sustainable economic growth which captures and encourages investment, is based on standards of transparency and efficiency, which stimulates job creation and which increases the well-being of the citizens of the member states.
‒ the economic recovery in the euro area is expected to progress, with gdp growth of 1.4% in 2015, 1.7% in 2016 and 1.8% in 2017, but this requires a strong political commitment to implementing sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms that are essential to stimulating economic growth.
i believe that member states must continue to undertake sustainable structural reforms, which are essential to promote economic growth.
structural reforms must be sustainable and socially balanced.
we are dealing with trade and investment liberalization agreements covering trade in goods and services (including public services), electronic commerce, public procurement, the energy sector, sanitary, phytosanitary and other regulations, technological research and investment.
we are dealing with trade and investment liberalization agreements covering trade in goods and services (including public services), public procurement, electronic commerce, the energy sector, sanitary, phytosanitary and other regulations and research in the field of technology.
the key sectors of this agreement should of course focus on investment, trade in goods and services, e-commerce, public procurement, energy, competition, the fight against corruption and, in particular, the needs of smes in terms of facilitating market access in order to generate business opportunities for both parties.
i also agree with the view that a more detailed analysis of the opportunities and constraints that this agreement may have for european economic operators is needed, while safeguarding the interests of smes and respecting international standards on consumer, environmental and human, social and labour rights protection.
the agreements are intended to cover investment, trade in goods and services, electronic commerce, public procurement, the energy sector, public enterprises, sanitary and phytosanitary regulations and research in the field of technology and are, of course, aimed at enforcing the isds (investor to state dispute settlement) system.
the european parliament's initiative, in the context of the application of article 128 of the regulation, to ask the european commission, on behalf of the committees on industry, research and energy (itre) and internal market and consumer protection (imco), questions on the creation of effective conditions for the development of a thriving data economy, demonstrates that parliament has taken on the strategic nature of the digital agenda for the future of the european project.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
only public regulation of supply can save our production model, based on small and medium-sized family farming, the only truly sustainable model from a social, environmental and territorial point of view.
this is not sustainable anymore.
‒ this report, which i voted for, seeks to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by creating a framework that improves the performance of all ports and helps them to cope with changing logistics and transport needs.
‒ the european parliament has approved a proposal for a reform of the union's port services focusing on transparency, ensuring workers' rights and safety and environmental commitments.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound.
it is the competitiveness of enterprises - read the interests of the major european economic groups - which, as we can see, will determine the timing and content of legislation, and this criterion, which is superimposed on social and environmental criteria, could still be of some use in improving people's living conditions.
the directive essentially aims to control the amount of sulphur used by ships in their fuels, taking into account the damage they cause to the environment, by means of a control carried out during navigation but also when they are at berth.
air pollution is one of the main environmental concerns facing citizens.
the directive essentially aims to control the amount of sulphur used by ships in their fuels for the damage they cause to the environment, by monitoring it during navigation but also when they are at berth.
‒ this directive aims to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels and thereby to reduce the harmful effects of these emissions on man and the environment.
the report also states that the reduction of sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain liquid petroleum fuels should be achieved by imposing limits on the sulphur content of these fuels as a condition for their use in the territory, territorial seas, exclusive economic zones and pollution control zones of the member states.
i welcome the presentation of this report and voted in favour of it because without the measures introduced in it, emissions from shipping could very soon exceed emissions from all land-based sources combined.
better and more options that invest and promote employment growth in a sustainable and responsible way are essential.
social and environmental criteria, if anything (a little) could still contribute to the improvement of the living conditions of workers and peoples, are now relegated to an even more secondary plane.
any social and environmental criteria which could have contributed even a little to the improvement of the living conditions of workers and peoples are now being secondary.
the three institutions recognise their joint responsibility to provide the union with high-quality legislation and to ensure that such legislation focuses on areas where it can bring the greatest added value to european citizens; that it is as efficient and effective as possible in achieving the union's common policy objectives; that it is as simple and clear as possible and avoids excessive regulation and administrative burdens for citizens, administrations and businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises; and is designed to facilitate its transposition and practical application and to enhance the competitiveness and sustainability of the union economy.
social and environmental criteria are now relegated to an even more secondary plane.
the aim is also to design legislation in such a way as to facilitate its transposition and practical application and to enhance the competitiveness and sustainability of the union's economy.
secondly, sweden remains one of the best examples of how we can push for sustainable development combining the economic, social and environmental dimensions while delivering a stronger recovery with good jobs.
i believe it is essential that measures to promote innovation be stepped up and that public health and environmental protection be safeguarded at all times.
in view of the above, and also because the report states that special attention should be paid to the protection of the environment, i voted in favour of it.
i am in favour of harmonising the legislation at member state level on the manufacture, authorisation and distribution of veterinary medicinal products in order to ensure clarity, simplicity and legal certainty, but above all the protection of public health and the environment.
this reform aims to improve the efficiency and availability of veterinary medicines in the eu while safeguarding human health and the impact on the environment.
these objectives include restricting the overuse of antibiotics in agricultural practices, seeking to avoid antimicrobial resistance, and the traceability of antibiotics in the eu whose active pharmaceutical substances pose significant environmental risks.
to do this, we need to have a business-friendly environment with a modern and future-proof regulatory framework that stimulates and promotes investment in the network infrastructure needed to meet the demands of the digital economy.
however, this will only be possible in the presence of a conducive business environment and if there are ways to trigger the digital transformation, and only if these technologies respect the legal framework of the european union on data protection in order to overcome the associated risks and challenges, in particular in terms of fundamental rights.
‒ the report notes that there has been further progress in the accession negotiations with montenegro and that two more negotiating chapters have recently been opened on transport and energy.
however, sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation between the ruling coalition and the opposition are essential if the accession process is to continue to progress and free, fair and transparent parliamentary elections are essential for the democratic future of that country.
to this end, all political forces should resume a sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation in the montenegrin parliament.
montenegro should continue to develop an impeccable record of respect for the rule of law, a key precondition for accession to the european union, stressing that sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation between the ruling coalition and the opposition are essential for the accession process to continue to progress.
this approach must be based on scientific research and governed by consistency of economic opportunities and identification of environmental constraints.
fisheries are a component of marine biodiversity and fisheries are the human activity with the greatest impact on this biodiversity.
the first reflects the recognition of environmental sensitivity by fao, closer to resource maintenance, and the second reflects the recognition of the convention on biological diversity, usually closer to concerns regarding biodiversity and ecosystem functioning.
madam president, the conservation of marine biodiversity, particularly in international waters, unquestionably requires an effort of cooperation and concertation at international level.
the united nations is the appropriate forum for establishing and deepening, as required and as evolving circumstances require, such cooperation and concertation with a view to the sound conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine resources, in accordance with criteria of justice and equity.
the measures to be implemented should be based on sound scientific knowledge and a thorough assessment of the impact of the various activities carried out in the marine environment.
this is an important document, as i have already said, and i agree with what mr gabriel mato has said, but i think it is only a failure to recognise that marine biodiversity is under pressure, with fisheries being among the most immediate threats.
question: do we want a globally competitive sector benefiting a few and privileging members of a select club of european producers, or do we want to be competitive by promoting the sustainable development of the centre and periphery of europe, the outermost regions and territories of the union?
the agricultural policy which the peoples of europe demand is one which puts the questions of social and territorial cohesion, food security and the environment above the laws of commerce and the logic of international competitiveness.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
- i voted in favour of this parliament's resolution because it refers to a regulation negotiated in a lengthy way by the commission and the council, which allows for the establishment of economic partnership agreements (epas) with a number of african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries, which should be consistent with the obligations assumed in the world trade organisation (wto), support regional integration and promote the gradual integration of the acp economies into the rules-based world trade system, thereby promoting their sustainable development and contributing to the overall effort to eradicate poverty and improve living conditions in the acp states.
the agreement strengthens cooperation between the european union and greenland with a view to the responsible and sustainable exploitation of greenland's fisheries resources.
the fisheries partnership agreement aims to strengthen cooperation between the union and greenland, and to promote a framework for collaboration in the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of resources in the greenland fishing zone.
it promotes a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of resources, fighting illegal fishing and supporting the local fisheries sector.
this new fisheries partnership protocol with the government of denmark and the local government of greenland aims not only to strengthen the existing cooperation between the eu and greenland, but also to promote a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the fishing zone.
the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment.
‒ i support the nicolai report because i believe that there is a need to create a legally binding international instrument under the united nations convention on the law of the sea for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction through modern and sustainable concepts of marine ecosystem management, ocean governance principles and fisheries.
‒ this report follows the recommendations made in 2015 at the united nations general assembly on international cooperation for the protection of ecosystems and the sustainable use of marine resources.
will have and have had on the marine environment.
- i voted in favour of the report on fisheries aspects in the framework of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, the united nations convention on the law of the sea.
it is not enough to deal with pollution and the growing threats to marine biodiversity.
the current legal framework, established more than 30 years ago and based on the principle of freedom of the high seas, needs to be improved in order to successfully promote the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction.
it is important to stress the leading role, and frankly positive, played by the european union and the commission, given the preponderance of the eu fishing industry and market and the fact that european fisheries policy is geared towards sustainability.
‒ this report follows the recommendations made in 2015 at the united nations general assembly on international cooperation for the protection of ecosystems and the sustainable use of marine resources.
will have and have had on the marine environment.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because marine biodiversity is of particular importance in the outermost regions, such as the azores, which give europe an atlantic dimension.
illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing threatens marine biodiversity and jeopardises the preservation of ecosystems.
the conservation of marine biodiversity and its sustainable use are directly linked to sustainable development in the long term.
it is urgent to tackle plastic waste at sea and to fund relevant research in the field of the 'blue economy'.
the positive role of eco-labelling in the seafood sector is highlighted, as it allows consumers to contribute to the sustainability of resources and the preservation of biodiversity.
it is desirable that the un works with states to implement effectively existing rules and, where necessary, develop additional rules that can indirectly help to protect biodiversity on the high seas and improve social, safety and control conditions, such as the creation of a centralised instrument for the registration of fishing vessels, while avoiding an increase in the bureaucratic burden for fishermen.
the potential for growth and job creation is enormous and must take account of the ecological limits of the sea.
fisheries and aquaculture play an important role in the maritime economy and should be developed in a responsible manner, allowing for sustainable development and ecosystem balance.
‒ the un underlined the importance of protecting the world's waters following the 1992 united nations conference on environment and development in brazil - agenda 21. in 2012, in the document published after the un conference on sustainable development, the international community reaffirmed its determination to address environmental problems and the need to promote sustainable development.
this shows that while the international community recognises the need for a global approach to managing pollution and the growing threats to marine biodiversity, there is a need to adapt plans and priorities locally to a rapidly and constantly developing world.
‒ as shadow rapporteur, i helped to ensure that this report addressed issues such as the need to develop consistent instruments for access to the benefits of exploiting genetic resources and enhancing the protection of marine biodiversity under new un initiatives.
this report follows the recommendations made in 2015 at the united nations general assembly on international cooperation for the protection of ecosystems and sustainable use of marine resources, emphasising the need to establish a binding instrument under the responsibility of the united nations convention on the law of the sea.
these breeds are part of the genetic biodiversity of europe.
eu zootechnical legislation aims to promote free trade in breeding animals and their genetic material, taking into account the sustainability of breeding programmes and the conservation of genetic resources.
the objective of competitiveness, which leads to the export of large european breeds as well as the import of other breeds, should not compromise the survival and reproduction of indigenous breeds, some of which have small populations and are part of the european genetic biodiversity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the directive also calls for the use of renewable energy sources to be made more efficient and for the use of renewable energy sources to be made more environmentally friendly.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the refugee crisis has shown that the eu's current approach to migration is not sustainable, and we need a complete overhaul to create a 21st century response system.
the core of this programme is the reduction of all legislation (in particular social and environmental legislation) which is considered to have burdens which undermine the competitiveness of enterprises (not only small but also large ones, especially large economic groups).
the rapporteur has succeeded in ensuring social dialogue and environmental, social and health standards in the commitments.
in this respect, i believe that it is imperative to have less red tape and less and better european legislation, which meets the legitimate expectations of citizens and stakeholders, and also ensures that public policy objectives, such as standards relating to consumers, the environment, social protection, health and safety, are not jeopardised.
improving the regulation of the single market is not synonymous with eliminating all regulation, but rather with providing a regulatory environment that is favourable to employment and business in europe.
the report states that 'better' and 'lighter' regulation could provide a regulatory environment that is favourable to employment and business.
for the apostles of the single market, this 'improvement' is synonymous with regulation which serves, essentially, to protect the economic interests of large companies, deregulating in terms of workers' and social rights and reducing the levels of demand in terms of environmental protection, safety, consumer protection.
it states that 'better' and 'lighter' regulation can provide a regulatory environment that is favourable to employment and business, contributing to long-term growth and, consequently, to the prosperity of citizens.
for the apostles of the single market, this 'improvement' is synonymous with regulation which serves, essentially, to protect the economic interests of large companies, deregulating in terms of workers' and social rights and reducing the levels of demand in terms of environmental protection, safety, consumer protection.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work should be approved by the council.
the report refers to and advocates the promotion of specific regulation and legislation, financing instruments and technology and know-how transfer, the regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp), a more equitable distribution of quotas, the protection of the environment and the value of socioeconomic diversity, the development of the marine economy with the involvement of stakeholders, the development of gender policies that enhance the economic and social emancipation of women, the strengthening of sustainable aquaculture, the creation of employment and the improvement of working conditions and the respect of rights.
this report advocates coastal fishing, which guarantees a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
the report refers to and advocates the promotion of specific regulation and legislation, financing instruments and technology and know-how transfer, the regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp), a more equitable distribution of quotas, the protection of the environment and the value of socioeconomic diversity, the development of the marine economy with the involvement of stakeholders, the development of gender policies that enhance the economic and social emancipation of women, the strengthening of sustainable aquaculture, the creation of employment and the improvement of working conditions and the respect of rights.
‒ coastal fishing is particularly important in the eu as it provides a high level of employment and is socially and environmentally sustainable.
the emff may support investments in diversification and contribute positively to fishermen's incomes through the development of complementary activities, namely investments in vessels, restaurants, environmental services in the fisheries sector, cultural and educational activities in the fisheries sector, fisheries tourism, etc.
‒ the report refers to and advocates the promotion of specific regulations and legislation, financing instruments and the transfer of technology and know-how, the regionalisation of the common fisheries policy (cfp), a more equitable distribution of quotas, the protection of the environment and the value of socioeconomic diversity, the development of the marine economy with the involvement of stakeholders, the development of gender policies that enhance the economic and social empowerment of women, the strengthening of sustainable aquaculture, the creation of employment and the improvement of working conditions and the enforcement of rights.
while we do not follow all the considerations made, the report highlights some important issues, which we value: the need to ensure that fisheries agreements provide mutual benefits for the eu and third countries, including their local populations and the fishing sector; the promotion of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries based on transparency and the participation of non-governmental actors, especially professionals who depend on fishing for their livelihood, in order to ensure a future for coastal communities, the marine environment, the development of local industry, the employment generated by fishing, processing and trade, and the contribution of fishing to food security; measures to promote the transfer of technology and know-how; the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
the inclusion of a chapter on the external dimension in the recent reform of the cfp regulation, in which sustainable fisheries partnership agreements (sfps) and fisheries under gfcf are formally regulated for the first time, is noteworthy.
‒ the inclusion of a chapter on the external dimension in the reform of the cfp regulation, in which sustainable fisheries partnership agreements (sfps) and fisheries under the rfmos are formally regulated for the first time, is noteworthy.
i support the importance of promoting the protection of ecosystems and of maintaining fish stocks above levels capable of generating a maximum sustainable yield, since the existence of more abundant stocks is an important requirement to enable the development of coastal fishing communities in third countries.
although we do not follow all the considerations made, the report highlights some important issues, which we value: the need to ensure that fisheries agreements provide mutual benefits for the eu and third countries, including their local populations and the fishing industry; the promotion of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries, based on transparency and the participation of non-governmental actors, especially professionals who depend on fisheries for their livelihoods, in order to ensure a future for coastal communities, the marine environment, the development of local industry, the employment generated by fishing, processing and trade, and the contribution of fisheries to food security; measures to promote the transfer of technology and know-how; and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
the eu should promote the harmonisation of fishing conditions with a view to creating favourable conditions for fishermen, promoting sustainable and responsible fishing.
only regionalised fisheries management can ensure sustainable and equitable exploitation, and further studies on the state of stocks and habitat and, where necessary, greater protection of deep-sea species and habitats are essential.
aspects such as improving the transparency of fisheries agreements and activities, defending sustainability and improving the supply of fish to ensure food security were also reasons for my approval of this report.
the promotion of sustainable fisheries in third countries, while also ensuring that imported fishery products are produced to acceptable labour standards and human rights.
the union therefore needs to promote sustainable fisheries and the best strategy for achieving this objective is to use its influence on the international scene to improve management standards and transparency in the management of fisheries resources.
these measures aim to ensure competitive advantages, taking into account environmental and social sustainability and the protection of consumer rights, as well as strict application of international regulations.
the european commission's analysis and implementation of the recommendations set out here will have implications for the way the union relates to the countries with which it has fisheries partnerships, in order to increase the transparency of the relationship, ensuring benefits and broader environmental sustainability.
this is an important document and it only fails to recognise that marine biodiversity is under pressure, with fisheries among the most immediate threats.
‒ although we do not follow all the considerations made, the report highlights some important issues, which we value: the need to ensure that fisheries agreements provide mutual benefits for the eu and third countries, including their local populations and the fishing industry; the promotion of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries, based on transparency and the participation of non-governmental actors, especially professionals who depend on fishing for their livelihood, in order to ensure a future for coastal communities, the marine environment, the development of local industry, the employment generated by fishing, processing and trade, and the contribution of fishing to food security; measures to promote the transfer of technology and know-how; and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
these members shall be appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
the use of this non-selective herbicide not only kills weeds, but all plants, as well as algae, bacteria and fungi, causing a significant negative impact on biodiversity and the ecosystem.
the european commission's proposal therefore fails to ensure the desirable high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and does not apply the precautionary principle.
with the decision now adopted, the majority of this parliament sacrifices the rights of all citizens to health and to quality of life, by once again putting environmental and social interests ahead of economic ones.
the use of this non-selective herbicide promotes the indiscriminate elimination of plants, as well as algae, bacteria and fungi, which has a significant negative impact on biodiversity and the ecosystem.
the european commission's proposal not only fails to ensure, but also ignores the desirable high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, and opts for not applying the precautionary principle.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the environment, the commission has decided to extend the existing measures to include the protection of the environment.
i do think that the arguments of agricultural organizations and of organizations for the conservation of habitats and biodiversity are consistent, particularly with regard to the southern european countries, which are more exposed to invasive species.
like any product, handling is subject to rules to ensure that there are no risks to people and the environment.
the use of this non-selective herbicide not only kills weeds but all plants, as well as algae, bacteria and fungi, causing a significant negative impact on biodiversity and the ecosystem.
the european commission's proposal therefore fails to ensure the desirable high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and does not apply the precautionary principle.
the report reaffirms the eu's founding principles of promoting peace and the well-being of its peoples, with particular emphasis on the ability to anticipate, prevent and respond to challenges and threats, as well as on the security of energy supplies and the effects of climate change.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it links the military and security posture with the consolidation of the energy union.
the eu should therefore ensure its internal and external resilience, its ability to anticipate, prevent and address foreseeable challenges and threats, be prepared to respond swiftly to unforeseeable crises, and ensure its ability to recover from different types of attacks, as well as safeguard the security of energy and raw material supply, while taking into account the effects of climate change, which need to be addressed urgently, and the eu should take a leading role in global climate action and the promotion of sustainable development.
in such a volatile and haphazard international environment, the eu must have strategic autonomy to ensure its security and promote its interests and values.
it links the militaristic and security posture to the consolidation of the energy union.
to cope with this changing global environment, the report states that the strategy must go through the identification and hierarchisation of threats and challenges, the definition of responses and the determination of the necessary means.
it calls for the strengthening of cooperation and support for the european defence industrial and technological base and criticises the internal and external security policy and its subordination to the market, development policy and energy policy.
the european union must join forces with strategic partners of international importance, but it also has an obligation to do more and better in synergy with its own member states to respond to the global challenges of security, climate change and sustainable development.
the interest in the energy sector is clear.
‒ the eu strategy for central asia was adopted in the context of the increasing importance of the region, the strengthening of the eu's engagement in afghanistan, the enlargement of the european neighbourhood policy to the caspian sea region, the eu's continued support for the reform and modernisation of post-soviet societies and the eu's energy security interests.
the strengthening of the eu-central asia strategy should be guided by the promotion of respect for human rights, respect for the principles of the rule of law, women's rights and the defence of gender equality, the promotion of equal access to education and sustainable economic integration and development as crucial vehicles for the economic and social development of the region.
structural reforms are advocated, which should be centred, apostolically, on specific areas of intervention: respect for human rights, the rule of law, good governance, democracy, youth and education policies, trade, economic, development, transport, environmental and water management policies.
energy policy is relevant and, behind the flowery, there is the interest in ensuring access to and control of the energy resources of those countries.
‒ the eu has many trade, energy and security interests in central asia.
‒ this report on the implementation and review of the eu strategy for central asia underlines the eu's political and economic strategy interest in strengthening its bilateral relations with the countries of central asia, particularly in the energy field.
regional cooperation in achieving sustainable results in the medium and long term is therefore key to the success of this strategy.
the rapporteur draws particular attention to the still existing (and unfortunately prevalent) gaps in children's rights, women's rights and gender equality, religious fanaticism, drug trafficking, environmental protection, stressing that education is one of the key areas in which the union should apply its long-term measures - as an absolutely essential pillar of integration and as a driver of economic, social and democratic development in central asia.
they believe that the problems of global warming, and especially water, must be addressed.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
despite all the measures taken, allegedly to help solve this problem, from the cosme programme to horizon 2020 and this measure to amend the capital waste regulation, the billions of euros injected into the financial system by the ecb are not reaching those who need them.
i stress the importance of creating a single pan-european data protection legislation, which harmonises and replaces the 28 different national legislation and which should create an enabling environment for businesses, which does not hinder their economic growth and which fosters innovation.
i welcome the fact that a balanced text has been reached which does not prejudice fundamental rights and freedoms, the public interest, in particular public safety, consumer protection, public health, environmental protection, worker mobility and journalistic information/investigation.
‒ protection against the unlawful acquisition, disclosure and use of trade secrets is essential to allowing a fair business environment for businesses.
transparency and access to information are also necessary to inform important public policies, such as those on the environment, health and consumer protection.
they do not guarantee the rights of citizens, their health or the environment.
they do not guarantee the rights of citizens, their health or the environment.
the committee also welcomes the fact that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the rights of citizens, their health and the environment are not fully guaranteed.
‒ the 2017 budget proposed in the secretary-general's report is marked by the continuation and intensification of the institution's policy of making efficiency gains in all areas where this is possible without compromising the quality of the working environment of members and staff.
‒ i would like to vote in favour of this report overall, with two points in particular: the current political and security environment resulting from terrorist attacks in europe requires increased security and cybersecurity for parliament in the 2017 budgetary procedure; and i stress the importance of the european parliament being able to control its own expenditure in order to be credible to the institutions and the citizens.
the document also states that sustainable cooperation in parliament between the government and the opposition is essential to meet the accession criteria.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
i agree that an integrated strategy to combat the various forms of poverty must be adopted, through a holistic approach linking economic, labour, education, energy and transport policies with social policies based on best practice.
the report suggests a range of support measures: reducing energy bills and investing in savings measures; guaranteeing a minimum income for every person; and increasing eu funds for the fight against poverty and social inclusion.
the report suggests a range of support measures: reducing energy expenditure and investing in savings measures; guaranteeing a minimum income for every person; increasing eu funds for the fight against poverty and social inclusion.
this report states that one way to contribute to solving the problem is through energy saving and improved efficiency in housing.
a minimum income above 60% of the national average wage in all member states and an energy observatory (for energy poverty) are some of the measures envisaged.
the report calls for a number of support measures: reducing energy expenditure and investing in energy saving measures; guaranteeing a minimum income for each person; and increasing eu funds for the fight against poverty and social inclusion.
the private sector is the engine of wealth creation and economic growth in all market economies, generating 90% of jobs and incomes in developing countries; it also accounts for 84% of gdp in developing countries and has the capacity to create a sustainable basis for domestic resource mobilisation, reducing inequalities.
i therefore agree that private investment in developing countries, if properly regulated, can contribute to the achievement of the un sustainable development goals, and the commission should remain engaged in the 2030 agenda discussions, while recognising the diversity of the private sector and the challenges to reducing poverty for the most marginalised and hard-to-reach.
here are some of the ideas it contains: - smes face too heavy a regulatory burden in developing countries (we add: compromising business opportunities for european companies); - ppps have been concentrated in the energy, infrastructure and telecommunications sectors, while the potential of sectors such as agriculture, education, green technologies, research and innovation, healthcare and property rights remains largely untapped; - clear and unjustified privilege of the private sector over the public sector, particularly in relation to eu support,- advocate for the 'modernization' of regulatory frameworks by creating a favourable environment for private initiatives.
article 3 (5) of the treaty on european union provides that the eu's objective in its relations with the outside world is to contribute to sustainable development, solidarity and mutual respect, free and fair trade, poverty eradication and the protection of human rights, and that the private sector has the potential to contribute to sustainable and efficient development in the long term.
here are some of the ideas it contains: - smes face too heavy a regulatory burden in developing countries (we add: compromising business opportunities for european companies); - ppps have been concentrated in the energy, infrastructure and telecommunications sectors, while the potential of sectors such as agriculture, education, green technologies, research and innovation, healthcare and property rights remains largely untapped; - clear and unjustified privilege of the private sector over the public sector, particularly in relation to eu support;- advocate for the 'modernization' of regulatory frameworks by creating a favourable environment for private initiatives.
this report recognises that private investment in developing countries, if properly regulated, can contribute to the achievement of the un sustainable development goals.
the sector still struggles with barriers to competition, discrimination and the absence of a liberalized, dynamic and business-friendly environment.
this means of transport makes a more sustainable contribution to employment and growth.
however, the sector still faces numerous barriers to competition, discrimination and the absence of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment, while at the same time there are too many rules at national level, sometimes with opaque procedures and standards.
‒ the recent scandals of manipulation of interest rate benchmarks such as libor and euribor, as well as allegations of manipulation of energy, oil and foreign exchange benchmarks, demonstrate that these can be subject to conflicts of interest.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
in general, i agree with the views expressed in the 24 special reports of the court of auditors on energy, the union's rural development policies, external relations and other areas, and i welcome the fact that more than half of the recommendations made by the court of auditors have been fully implemented by the commission.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
welcomes environmental measures in the court's operating policy.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the director of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would suggest that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in future.
the european energy regulators agency was and is one of the elements of the so-called energy package, which is a comprehensive strategy, defined at the level of the european union, to privatise and liberalise the energy sector, that is, to better serve the interests of the economic groups in the sector.
the european energy regulators agency was and is one of the elements of the so-called energy package, which is a comprehensive strategy, defined at the level of the european union, to privatise and liberalise the energy sector, that is, to better serve the interests of the economic groups in the sector.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
notes the publication of the declarations of interests and cvs of the director and deputy directors - this aspect was taken into account in the opinion of the libe committee, issues related to transparency and conflicts of interest; the committee also welcomes the fact that the academy's headquarters have been moved to budapest and suggests that measures be taken to make the academy profitable in respect of the working environment.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of workers from harmful organisms.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of workers from harmful organisms.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the executive director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
highlight the agency's contribution to maritime safety, the prevention of pollution from ships and assistance to member states.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
to commend the agency's efforts through internal measures aimed at improving the cost-effectiveness and environmental quality of its facilities.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i would vote in favour of postponing the decision to grant the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
the report focuses on the following key areas: prioritising investment to accelerate recovery and improve productivity; promoting youth employment, innovation and smes; enhancing environmental sustainability and climate action; promoting economic and social cohesion and convergence; managing the european fund for strategic investments (efsi); examining the project finance obligation initiative; updating the external dimension of eib interventions; strengthening the eib's governance framework, transparency and control.
the report also calls on the eib to: develop and implement a comprehensive approach to respond to the serious challenges posed by the flow of migrants to europe, including enhanced operations in the countries of origin of these flows as well as in countries directly bordering the countries of origin; prioritise investments to accelerate recovery and increase productivity, especially in promoting youth employment; improve environmental sustainability and climate action.
i am in favour of full inclusion of women in this area, with increased visibility of women in the digital environment and with better gender equality.
in addition to food security issues, care must also be taken to ensure the control and sustainability of fisheries resources, as the implementation of traceability systems should ensure the comprehensive monitoring of catches, leading to the consequent sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
finally, we must also ensure the appropriate value added of high-quality fishery products caught with sustainable and environmentally friendly fishing gear, as is the case in the azores, where, because of this unfair competition, the commercial value of the precious species caught in their waters is not compatible with their high quality and with sustainable fishing methods.
i come from the azores, an outermost region of europe, where the sea has high biodiversity but low biomass, and where it is caught by a small-scale fleet what some of the great chefs call the best fish in the world.
i should also like to point out that it was not any administration or authority that alerted us to this matter, but an environmental non-governmental organisation.
i was also concerned about the appropriateness of the funds involved and about compliance with the generally established international environmental standards.
both fisheries agreements under discussion here - liberia and mauritania - allow the european union fleets to expand their fishing opportunities, use only the biologically renewable marine resources not used by each country, open the door to cooperation with local industry and increase food security in europe.
yes, of course the european union can create a lot of good jobs for young people in the activities of the future, in the energy transition, in the digital revolution, in health and in creative industries.
the time has therefore come for us to fight without hesitation for this project of peace and prosperity, which has made the european union the region of the world with the highest average quality of life and the greatest sustainability for the planet.
we are witnessing the degradation of an entire generation, with serious consequences for the foreseeable future, putting pressure on the sustainability of our social security systems.
to break this cycle of youth unemployment in a sustainable way, we need to promote forms of cooperation between governments, businesses, educational institutions and social partners, to adapt national education and training systems, matching skills to labour market needs and promoting a targeted and sustained development of our businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which are key to generating growth.
i also agree with ms mcintyre, who said that we need to create the right environment for businesses to grow so that they can hire young europeans entering the labour market.
this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be signed between the european union and the republic of liberia, which has a 570 km coastline along the atlantic ocean.
i voted in favour because the agreement is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy, of the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities, and is a source of great benefit to both parties.
‒ this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be signed between the european union and the republic of liberia, which has a 570 km coastline along the atlantic ocean.
this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be signed between the european union and the republic of liberia, which has a 570 km coastline along the atlantic ocean, with an eez of 246 152 km2 containing demersal and pelagic fisheries resources, including tuna and tuna-like species.
i agree with the rapporteur that the spa with liberia is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities, and that the agreement strengthens cooperation between the union and liberia and, in general, west africa, an important tuna fishing area.
‒ in line with the existing strategic line on sustainable fisheries, and following on from the other partnership agreements concluded in recent years with third countries, the commission has negotiated a new agreement with liberia.
this cooperation aims not only at the sustainability of fisheries policy but also at the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the maritime zones of the partner countries.
‒ this is the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia, established for a period of 9 years starting from december 2015. the main objective is to establish fishing opportunities for european union vessels in the liberian exclusive zone, in accordance with the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas.
this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement (spa) is the first to be signed between the eu and the republic of liberia, with a coastline of 570 km and an eez of 246 152 km2.
the conclusion of an ipa with liberia will clearly support the eu in achieving its objectives in the fight against iuu fishing and in promoting the objective of the common fisheries policy (cfp) which aims at the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities, which is why i voted in favour of this recommendation.
i was also concerned about the appropriateness of the funds involved and about compliance with the generally established international environmental standards.
as this is the first fisheries agreement with this country, there are environmental details which are still in their infancy and which will have to be improved in future renewals.
this is the most important fisheries protocol currently signed by the eu with a third country, with a financial contribution of €59.125 million per year: €55 million to allow european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone and €4.125 million to promote the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and the protection of the environment and of mauritania's marine protected areas and coastal zones.
the eu's financial contribution to the african country is €59.125 million per year: €55 million to allow european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone and €4.125 million to promote the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and the protection of the environment and of mauritania's marine protected areas and coastal areas.
the new protocol provides for an annual eu financial contribution of eur 59.125 million over four years, comprising: - eur 55 million for access to the exclusive economic zone of mauritania; - eur 4.125 million to support policies for the sustainability of the fisheries sector in mauritania.
the legislator, however, increased the funds allocated to promoting the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and environmental protection in mauritania, in order to promote the environmental sustainability model advocated by the european union also in the field of fisheries policy.
in addition, eur 4.125 million per year is provided in the form of financial support to promote the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and the environmental protection of marine and coastal areas.
in addition, eur 16.5 million will be paid in the form of financial support to promote sustainable development in the environmental, fisheries and coastal and marine protected areas sectors.
this agreement allows for a major expansion of fishing opportunities for the european union fleets, ensures that they use only renewable marine biological resources that are not usable by this country, opens doors to cooperation with local industry and increases food security in europe.
i am therefore voting in favour of the draft decision, since the union's commitment to this agreement is essential to ensure a stable and healthy global environment.
i support the ruža tomašić report because if we harness the full potential of cohesion policy, we will be contributing to improving employment opportunities, to promoting sustainable and inclusive growth, to poverty reduction and to social inclusion.
in this context, community-local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti) initiatives are innovative cohesion policy tools and can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, creating quality local employment, sustainable urban development and pursuing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
the new erdf regulation also establishes a budget limited to specific purposes of 5% of expenditure for sustainable urban development.
community-based local development (clld) and integrated territorial investment (iti) are innovative cohesion policy tools that some member states will use in this way for the first time and that can significantly contribute to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, the creation of quality local employment, sustainable urban development and the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
the new erdf regulation establishes a budget earmarked for specific purposes of 5% of expenditure for sustainable urban development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ mountain regions represent a significant part (about 30%) of the eu's territory and the whole eu depends on their ecosystem services.
mountain regions offer numerous opportunities for achieving the eu's objectives in terms of employment, cohesion and environmental protection through the sustainable use of their natural resources.
while union policies have a major impact on these regions, in particular in the areas of environment and climate change, transport and connectivity, and in the area of entrepreneurship, these policies do not address a specific dimension relating to their condition, just as there is no specific eu policy for mountain regions.
i am voting in favour of this because i believe it is essential to create and coordinate specific union policies for mountain regions in order to deal with the disadvantages they face and thus promote their sustainable development.
some of the development strategies that could help to reverse this situation are mentioned: agricultural and craft development, sustainable tourism practices, physical and digital accessibility, development of renewable energy and protection of ecosystems, policies to attract young people, improvement of health and education services, promotion of transnational and cross-border dialogue, considering that mountain regions are not necessarily confined to one member state.
also as regards the exploitation of ecosystem services, only the joint efforts of the member states will ensure the use of available resources.
natural resources in mountain areas can be used to create jobs and thus reduce unemployment in the eu, especially in the area of green jobs, helping to combat climate change.
the variety and abundance of renewable energy sources can contribute to the eu's renewable energy targets.
a concrete proposal is needed at the level of the european funds strategy for these regions (a smart, sustainable and inclusive strategy).
the endogenous potential of these regions, especially that linked to their natural resources, can generate sustainable and quality jobs.
the enormous diversity and abundance of renewable energy sources can also contribute to the achievement of the eu's renewable energy objectives.
the development of many of these regions' endogenous resources can result in an improvement in social, economic and territorial cohesion, stimulating sustainable economic development.
i also believe that a coordinated approach is needed to include mountain regions and to ensure that the financial allocations granted by the eu have an appropriate strategic orientation towards sustainable and inclusive growth, which are further reasons why i voted in favour of this report.
we accompany this report on how eu mountains can contribute to sustainable development.
the wealth of natural assets and resources in mountain regions can generate jobs and improve the employment situation in the eu, especially in green jobs, which contribute to combating climate change.
recalls that, given their structural disadvantages and their ultra-peripheral nature, it is essential to provide additional support to mountain regions with regard to their economic development, the prevention and management of natural disasters and environmental protection, and to contribute to the achievement of the eu's renewable energy targets.
i would stress in this respect that mountain regions have the potential to offer numerous opportunities for achieving the eu's objectives of green jobs and environmental protection through the sustainable use of their natural resources.
we need measures to ensure the sustainability of our agriculture and its future development.
this flight forward is unquestionable and shows a complete disregard for the importance of european farmers and their role in preserving the countryside, biodiversity and food security.
madam president, madam commissioner, 2015 was certainly a very important year in defining the sustainable development agenda, but in 2016 and beyond, in the course of implementation, it is the credibility of the commitments made that will be at stake.
and i ask the commissioner what coordination efforts are under way between the commission and the member states to implement the sustainable development goals and what more can we do to ensure proper monitoring, the involvement of this european parliament, because this is the moment of truth, the moment when it is decided whether or not we are living up to the political commitments that have been made.
this paradox shows how strong a relationship there is between democracy, respect for civil and political rights and economic and social sustainability.
from the humanitarian crisis in the food sector, the health crisis and the energy crisis, there are also grim levels of crime and multiple human rights abuses, with the arbitrary detention of political prisoners, many of them in inhumane conditions.
in addition to the heavy rationing of basic products, public servants will also work only two days a week, as the government has decided to ration the supply of energy, a measure that today has been extended until at least the next 27th.
essential goods such as food and medicine, medical care and even energy for public servants to work are lacking.
mrs. mogherini, let's not waste any more time.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the hydropower sector is crucial to maintaining and enhancing the relative energy independence of the european union.
this is a type of energy that doesn't use fossil fuels and is based on a renewable resource: the water cycle.
in acknowledging these and other advantages, i must also point out that it is not a panacea and there are significant environmental impacts.
rather than give advice that will be useful in any case, i want to draw attention to the problem and stress the importance of comprehensive, serious and consequential environmental impact studies.
in the current legal framework of directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation, member states do not yet share country-by-country reports, and therefore in the current cross-border tax avoidance environment, it is essential to promote transparency and to strengthen the tools and mechanisms established by the directive.
i further agree that china's overcapacity is already having important social, economic and environmental consequences in the eu and, even in terms of employment in the eu, the social effects of granting china market economy status could be substantial.
the commission needs to take into account the concerns expressed by industrialists, trade unions and other bodies about the consequences for eu jobs, the environment and also sustainable growth in all the sectors affected.
i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that granting china market economy status will have serious economic consequences for the eu, in particular for the development of a sustainable economy, for the metal and chemical industries and for jobs in the eu.
‒ following the adoption by the united nations in september 2015 of a new strategy for the 2030 agenda for development through the adoption of 17 sustainable development goals, the un general assembly called for the objectives and targets to be monitored and reviewed on the basis of a set of global indicators, and the progress report should support the monitoring and review work of the high level political forum on sustainable development.
i support this resolution because i believe that the new universal framework for sustainable development requires greater coherence between the various eu policy areas and actors, through greater eu coordination, in order to ensure the integration of the environmental, economic and social pillars into the eu's internal and external policies, and that the foreign affairs council should, before the july meeting of the development forum, adopt a coherent and common eu position, taking into account the position of the european parliament.
‒ the proposed set of 230 indicators for the sustainable development goals (sdgs) represents a good starting point and provides a solid framework for monitoring and assessing progress towards the 17 sdgs.
‒ the '2030 agenda for sustainable development' consists of 17 objectives, divided into 169 targets.
adopted unanimously in september 2015 at a un summit, the 17 sustainable development goals, modeled after the millennium development goals, are intended to be a shared vision for humanity and a social contract with the peoples of the world.
‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution calling on the european commission to come forward with a proposal for a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all relevant areas of domestic and foreign policy, with a detailed timetable up to 2030, including a mid-term review and a specific procedure ensuring the involvement of the european parliament.
‒ i understand that the high level political forum (hlpf) has a key role in reviewing the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and that it should ensure a coordinated and effective needs assessment and the adoption of the roadmaps needed for the effective implementation of the 2030 agenda.
i believe that the eu should adopt a sustainable development strategy and its implementation policies should be the subject of a broad consultation involving all stakeholders, including national parliaments, local authorities and civil society.
‒ the '2030 agenda for sustainable development', adopted in 2015 at the un, consists of 17 goals based on the millennium development goals.
‒ the commission should present a proposal for a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all relevant areas of domestic and foreign policy, with a detailed timetable up to 2030, a mid-term review and a specific procedure ensuring the full involvement of parliament, including a concrete implementation plan.
‒ the document 2030 agenda for sustainable development was adopted at the united nations summit on sustainable development in new york last september.
the european parliament considers that it will be for the sustainable development policy forum to ensure a coordinated and efficient assessment of the needs and the adoption of the measures necessary for the effective implementation of this agenda.
this resolution - which i voted for - calls for the commission to present a proposal for the monitoring and implementation of the sustainable development strategy, covering the relevant internal and external policies and the timetable to be followed up to 2030. given the importance and universality of the objectives to which the eu has committed itself, the new eu sustainable development strategy and the implementation policies associated with it should be subject to broad public consultation, in particular with all stakeholders, using the most inclusive procedure possible.
‒ i am absolutely in solidarity with the 2030 agenda and the 17 sustainable development goals (sdgs).
‒ at a time when the un and governments around the world continue to shout the sustainable development goals (sdgs), it is important to clarify that they do not represent the interests of the majority of the world's population - those who are exploited and oppressed under the current political and economic order.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the follow-up and status of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals, as i consider eu-un institutional cooperation at multilateral level essential to achieve the common goals of eradicating poverty and redefining and modernising our development strategies for the next 15 years.
i would stress the call on the commission to come forward with a proposal for a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all relevant areas of domestic and foreign policy, with a detailed timetable up to 2030, a mid-term review and a specific procedure ensuring the full involvement of the european parliament.
i stress the need to extend the spirit of cooperation to all stakeholders, including national parliaments, local authorities and civil society, through an inclusive and transparent process, in order to achieve sustainable results.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the protection of the environment, parliament called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the protection of the environment is not jeopardised by the introduction of new technologies.
in the case of the european parliament, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the protection of the environment.
we must improve the international political environment so that the nationalist virus, which is manifesting itself on a large scale in the political sphere, is not matched by a kind of protectionist virus in the sphere of international trade relations.
but this requires a great effort on the part of the world's major powers, and european opinion has a very important role to play in creating a more favourable environment, with greater transparency from the commercial, budgetary and also fiscal point of view, in the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud.
mr president, commissioner, the completion of the energy union is essential if europe is to strengthen its sovereignty, secure and diversify its supply and lead the energy transition to a model based on clean and renewable energy.
but when we talk about the energy transition, we also have to talk about the social model that will enable europeans to have the energy they need for a decent life.
we need to know very well the concrete data on energy poverty in each country in order to check the conformity and quality of the responses and, on the basis of the concrete data, we need to act both in the field of energy efficiency and in the field of market regulation.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, theresa griffin, on her suggestions, on the subject she has raised and on the fact that she has integrated the social dimension, because we need to ensure in the energy transition economic gains in competitiveness, environmental gains in sustainability and social gains in equity.
madam president, it is urgent to invest in european mechanisms to protect the income of milk producers and to strengthen support for regions where the dairy sector is of crucial economic, social and environmental importance, combined with a production fabric with a greater capacity to withstand price shocks, as is the case in the azores.
all this represents unnecessary waste to the real economy and hinders further growth and job creation.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the liquidation of mory-global was declared in early 2015. however, the court noted that the shareholder appeared to have lost interest in the mory-global restructuring project and its sustainability.
the liquidation of mory-global was declared in early 2015. the commercial court noted that the shareholder seemed to have lost interest in the mory-global restructuring project and its sustainability and that arcole industries had run into difficulties, having withdrawn eur 7,5 million from mory-global to finance the so-called mory-ducros social plan.
‒ the ongoing energy transition must translate into a more efficient, transparent, sustainable, competitive, stable energy system that benefits society as a whole and contributes to the increased participation of citizens and communities at local and regional level.
despite progress, the objective of the third energy package to establish a truly competitive, transparent and consumer-friendly retail energy market has not yet been fully achieved in all member states of the union.
in this connection, i stress the need to implement the third energy package, particularly as regards the right to change energy supplier free of charge and better information to consumers about their rights, and to have independent and up-to-date price comparison tools.
the commission also notes that the processing and storage of energy-related data of citizens must be managed by entities that comply with the eu's existing regulatory framework on privacy and data protection.
‒ this report is part of a vision of privatisation and liberalisation of the energy sector.
it therefore ignores the whole process of dismantling and privatising the companies which traditionally provided, in a vertical way, and under a state monopoly, the activities of production (in the case of electricity), transport, distribution and marketing of energy.
the centralization of national or regional energy systems, the public and universal access to energy, can be classified as a civilizational achievement of the european peoples.
this was a situation which allowed planning and operation to be optimized to meet consumer needs, including in the field of renewable energy.
it would have many advantages, for example, because it would not lead to the multiplication of production and transport structures, it would avoid the enormous difficulties of managing the system that arise today, it would guarantee the correct and rational use of resources and the adoption of the best energy efficiency measures.
it is technically and economically unacceptable that the spraying of small-scale production and the geographical remoteness of production from consumption contribute to the efficiency of energy systems, particularly in electricity.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that energy is an essential commodity which should be in the public domain.
this report aims to create a new framework for the energy market to protect its consumers.
demanding citizens' access to a stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy supply; the protection of consumers from abusive, anti-competitive and unfair practices by market players; consumers' clear and transparent access to information on energy bills, allowing for switching operators where necessary.
the report also promotes the participation of citizens in the production, consumption, storage or sale of their own renewable energy, by becoming active participants in this sector.
finally, this own-initiative document presents a set of measures that will contribute to the eradication of energy poverty, based on the idea that access to affordable energy is a basic social right.
‒ this report focuses exclusively on the new framework for household energy consumers in the context of the energy transition.
the ultimate goal should be to achieve an economy based on the full application of the principle of 'energy efficiency/fuel first' and prioritising energy saving and demand-side measures over supply-side measures in order to achieve our climate goals, in particular the 1.5°c target set in the paris agreement and the goals of energy security, competitiveness and in particular reducing consumer bills.
‒ this report is about the new framework for domestic energy consumers in the context of the energy transition, which is a shift from a traditional centralised energy system to a more decentralised, energy efficient, flexible and largely renewable energy system.
i believe that citizens should have access to stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy and ensure that products, services and buildings are of high quality and energy efficient.
i also believe that it is essential to strengthen coordination at eu level in order to combat energy poverty by sharing best practice between member states and guaranteeing access to affordable energy as a basic social right.
i am voting in favour of this report but would like to stress that this new configuration of the electricity market should give consumers more choice and better control over their participation in a fully functional and efficient energy market.
‒ this report is part of a vision of privatisation and liberalisation of the energy sector.
it therefore ignores the whole process of dismantling and privatising the companies which traditionally provided, in a vertical way, and under a state monopoly, the activities of production (in the case of electricity), transport, distribution and marketing of energy.
the centralisation of national or regional energy systems and the public and universal access to energy can be classified as a civilization achievement of the european peoples.
this was a situation which allowed planning and operation to be optimized to meet consumer needs, including in the field of renewable energy.
it would have many advantages, for example, because it would not lead to the multiplication of production and transport structures, it would avoid the enormous difficulties of managing the system that arise today, it would ensure the correct and rational use of resources and the adoption of the best energy efficiency measures.
it is technically and economically unacceptable that the spraying of small-scale production and the geographical remoteness of production from consumption contribute to the efficiency of energy systems, particularly in electricity.
‒ in order to achieve the goals set out in the paris agreement, the new deal for energy consumers presented by the commission has postulated the need for a more decentralised and flexible energy system based on renewable sources.
in this context, the report on the creation of a new framework for energy consumers underlines the importance of a retail energy system that provides consumers with sustainable and affordable energy.
at the same time, the report advocates an inclusive energy system, respecting the multiple intergenerational interests, enabling consumers to produce, consume, store and sell their own energy, with a view to becoming energy self-sufficient.
finally, and more importantly, the document stresses the importance of a properly regulated energy system characterised by transparency and fair competition.
i therefore believe that only an energy system adapted to today's social market economy will be able to lower energy prices, encourage innovation and promote sustainable development, and i therefore vote in favour.
‒ the ongoing energy transition must translate into a move away from an energy system based on traditional centralised production towards a more decentralised, energy efficient, flexible and largely renewable energy system.
the energy union should have the interests of current and future generations of citizens at its core and should also:- provide citizens with a stable, affordable, efficient, sustainable and quality energy supply;- enable citizens to produce, consume, store or sell their own energy from renewable sources, individually or collectively, to take energy saving measures and to become active participants in the energy market through consumer choice; - contribute to eradicating the causes of energy poverty;- protect consumers from abusive, anti-competitive and unfair practices of market participants so that they can fully exercise their rights;- create conditions that favour the smooth functioning and competitiveness of an internal energy market that offers consumers choices and provides them with clear and transparent access to information.
‒ the european commission's communication on 'a new framework for energy consumers' aims to make the energy union a reality by highlighting the role of citizens at the heart of the concerns and objectives of this large internal energy market, with the ultimate aim of reducing their energy bill.
this report builds on that communication and argues that the eu should move away from a centralised system of energy production towards a more decentralised, flexible and renewable energy-based system.
this third energy package aims to provide a truly competitive and consumer-friendly energy consumption market.
i therefore support the ideas in the report on the need to support consumers in the desired energy transition and in the production of energy itself, with a view to achieving a more efficient grid.
i therefore supported this report, which puts the interests of consumers at the heart of the system, along the lines of the new framework described in the energy union strategy.
‒ the report is in line with the energy union, making references throughout to deeply negative aspects, including the dubious concept of 'producers' and 'consumers', through a participatory process led by the european commission and always under the banner of the competitiveness of an internal energy market.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources.
‒ i voted in favour of the griffin report because i believe it is essential to strike a balance between economic gains of competitiveness, environmental gains of sustainability and social gains of equity.
we know that today more than 50 million eu citizens live in energy poverty, but we do not know the figures for each member state.
i also stress the call for more frequent, transparent and clear energy bills, so that consumers can read them more easily and avoid technical terms.
i would also stress the obligation for suppliers to specify in the invoice or in an annex the contribution of each energy source to the total energy mix of the supplier in the previous year in an understandable and easily comparable way, including a reference to a source where information on the environmental impacts of co2 emissions and radioactive waste is available.
i support the dalton report because it considers these costs unnecessary and a waste for the real economy of businesses, with the consumer being the most harmed in the end, as he is denied access to the national markets of new entrants, his choice is limited and products become more expensive.
what we do not accept is that this principle should serve to undermine social and environmental rights, often won through hard struggles of the people and the workers.
i also believe that it is essential for the european union to look at the future of the digital single market, in particular how best to create a european ecosystem to support startups, to look at how best companies can operate in the sharing economy and to increase european competitiveness also through trade agreements that will be established.
‒ the single market is one of the main pillars of european integration, providing a driver for sustainable growth, stimulating job creation, facilitating trade between member states and ensuring a highly competitive economy.
the group of the european socialists has succeeded in negotiating the introduction of many measures relating to sustainable growth, job creation, social inclusion, consumer protection, territorial cohesion, environmental concerns, protection and incentives for smes, administrative cost relief; tax justice and the fight against tax evasion and fraud, health and safety at work, the qualification of workers, etc.
however, in recent years the global economic, financial and business environment has changed dramatically and the challenges are becoming more significant, with a considerable impact on the internal market.
i would stress the proposals put forward by the european socialist group to strengthen the removal of unjustified obstacles to the single market in order to achieve tangible and rapid results in terms of sustainable growth, research, innovation, job creation, especially among young people, consumer choice and competitiveness.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, without real coherence in development policy, the 2030 agenda for sustainable development will remain on paper.
the trade agreements that the union is negotiating around the world need to be aligned with the new sustainable development goals and include strong sustainable development chapters.
on the other hand, i call for firm action by all to implement the recent climate agreement reached at cop 21. i would stress that ocean acidification is a threat to the food security of all mankind.
the need to dismantle some reactors is evident, for imperative reasons of safety and of safeguarding the health of the population and the environment.
these processes should not neglect the necessary maintenance and monitoring before, during and after closure, the treatment of waste, its storage and decontamination, the environmental requalification of installations, and support for the replacement of the energy production capacity of decommissioned power plants, with particular attention to environmental sustainability and energy efficiency.
(for technical reasons the speaker has to interrupt his speech and then the president asks him to go back to the beginning) mr president, commissioner, we must have a reciprocal attitude in terms of environmental and social requirements with regard to agro-industrial investments made in third countries.
i understand that we cannot take an obscurantist position on these, because we must and have the obligation to create an environment conducive to the development of science, but always, and i repeat, always, with powerful and very careful precautions as regards the impact on the environment and the health of people's animals.
technology is now driving intensive production that is endangering biodiversity and the balance of our planet.
agriculture, to feed the world, must adapt to the challenge of climate change and make rational use of available resources.
international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent, effective and competitive economic environment by creating and ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection.
international regulatory cooperation therefore has the potential to promote a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while creating and ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection.
i am voting in favour of the report, considering it important to stress that international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent, effective and pro-competitive economic environment, creating high levels of health and safety protection.
international regulatory cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while ensuring high levels of health and safety protection.
in the context of the eu's fifth biennial report on the cfp, the european parliament is once again proposing a set of concrete recommendations in the areas of trade and finance, food security, climate change and migration, in the light of the recent refugee crisis in europe.
i support the dan preda report and the recommendations it makes, and only with a coherent and strong cooperation policy can we achieve the new goals of sustainable development and poverty eradication.
‒ the council conclusions on the commission's fifth biennial report on policy coherence for development (pcd), adopted in october 2015, highlighted that pcd will be an important element of the eu's contribution to achieving the broader objective of policy coherence for sustainable development.
it covers trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security, with a focus on eu foreign policy in the context of the refugee crisis.
the european union should take the lead in promoting policy coherence for development (pcd), as it is a key element in the implementation of the new sustainable development agenda.
we must move towards sustainable development and poverty eradication.
‒ the commission's fifth biennial report on the cpd highlighted that policy coherence for development (pcd) will be an important eu contribution to the wider objective of policy coherence for sustainable development (pcds).
the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development represents a new challenge for the achievement of the sdg, as it sets out a single and universal set of development goals applicable to all.
it is important to stress that the sustainable development goals concern both developed and developing countries and should be incorporated into the union's decision-making process, both internally and externally.
in addition to taking stock of the progress reported by the european commission and identifying areas for improvement of eu mechanisms on cpd, this report aims to stimulate debate on the future of this concept at union level, with a view to the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
some of the priority areas are migration, trade and finance, food security, health, climate change, gender issues or security.
‒ the commission's fifth biennial report on policy coherence for development (dpc) of august 2015 includes the specific objective 'improving policy coherence for sustainable development'.
the dpc is an important part of the eu's contribution to achieving the goal of policy coherence for sustainable and inclusive development.
this report aims to take stock of progress made, identify areas for improvement and existing mechanisms in the eu on cpd and encourage debate on the future of this concept, and should therefore take the lead in promoting a universal agenda in this area that puts this concept at the service of sustainable development, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
i would argue that the 2030 agenda for sustainable development is a priority.
the 17 universal and indivisible sustainable development goals set out in the agenda need to be achieved.
on the other hand, i call for firm action by all to implement the recent climate agreement reached at cop21.
i would remind you that policy coherence for development is fundamental to the implementation of the new sustainable development agenda.
however, there are serious doubts about the ability of large-scale ppps such as nasan to contribute to poverty reduction and food security, as it may be the poorest who bear the burden of the social and environmental risks associated with them.
the limits of this approach are well known, including the environmental risks involved.
the rapporteur believes that the eu should suspend its support for nasan and that donors and national governments should invest in a sustainable farming model for small farmers and women, so as to benefit family farmers and provide consumers with quality food at affordable prices.
this report, which i have supported, highlights the need to invest more in conflict prevention, taking into account factors such as political and religious radicalisation, electoral violence, population displacement and climate change.
i also express my concern about food waste, the sale of food below cost of production and the misuse of certain agricultural products - milk, fruit and vegetables - as 'balance products' by large retailers.
that is why i am in favour of a regulatory framework that protects producers and smes against these unfair practices, namely selling below production costs, thus jeopardising the long-term sustainability of production.
we also see huge food waste, reports of sales below the cost of production and the misuse of certain agricultural products - milk, fruit and agricultural products, for example, sold at very low prices in promotions.
we shall thus be contributing to an overall reduction in costs and an increase in revenues for firms with less bargaining power, as well as to facilitating the disposal of their production and, consequently, to reducing food waste, thus leading to more responsible consumption.
‒ food demand is expected to grow by 70% by 2050. the reduction of available land, environmental loss and degradation, the scarcity of water resources, the increasing demand for energy and the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting considerable pressure on our environment.
the eu must take global leadership in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability.
‒ this report assumes that technological innovation is a key part of the solution to the reduction of available land, environmental degradation, water scarcity, increasing demand for energy and the emergence of new pests and diseases.
the central concern in this report is to ensure that the eu takes the global lead in technology and innovation (with more or less flourishing concerns about 'agricultural sustainability').
it is business that must prevail over the protection of the health of the population and the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu.
this requires more and better investment in agricultural technology as well as in reducing the environmental impact of agriculture.
‒ the increase in the world population, the satisfaction of the demand for healthy food and optimal nutrition, as well as the reduction of available land, environmental loss and degradation, the scarcity of water resources, the increasing demand for energy and the emergence of pests and diseases are putting considerable pressure on our environment.
technological innovation is a key part of the solution, and agricultural technologies have the potential to make agriculture more productive and sustainable.
it is important to stress that rural areas, in particular the outermost and mountainous regions, are more vulnerable to climate change, with the risk of depopulation and ageing of the population, and consequently of abandonment of all agricultural activity.
i believe that the challenges of sustainable agriculture must be met with a common strategy of the commission and the member states to ensure support for technological innovation, a risk-based and scientifically-based regulatory framework, the continuity of basic research and the development of agricultural skills.
the rapporteur argues that europe must optimise its production, including in the agricultural sector, in order to ensure the sustainability of resources and to make the most of technological innovation.
to this end, taking the lead in world technology, innovation and agricultural sustainability, while ensuring that all european farmers have access to the benefits of technological developments, is of crucial importance.
on the other hand, europe lacks human capital and technical know-how in the fields of agronomy and plant pathology, and it is therefore clear that the sustainability of agriculture in europe requires bringing farmers and scientists closer together in order to improve the practical translation of research and foster a new phase of agricultural innovation.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu, which aims to draw attention to the increasing difficulty of producing food in a balanced and sustainable way, given the scarcity of available (fertile) land and water resources, as well as the increasing degradation of our environment.
the proposed solution proposes to make use of the technological innovations we have in the agricultural sector, making it more innovative, competitive and sustainable in the long term.
only concerted work between the eu institutions, member states, academia and the agricultural sector will develop cutting-edge technological solutions for a truly sustainable and competitive agriculture, enabling europe to move to a new phase of agricultural innovation.
i understand that we cannot take an obscurantist position on these, because we must and have the obligation to create an environment conducive to the development of science, but always, and i repeat, always, with powerful and very precautionary precautions as regards the impact on the environment and on the health of animals and people.
technology is now driving intensive production which is endangering biodiversity and the balance of our planet.
‒ i voted in favour of the mcintyre report because i agree with technology-based solutions for modern and sustainable agriculture in the eu.
i would stress that the compilation and analysis of large integrated data sets has the potential to promote innovation in the agricultural sector and is particularly useful for addressing and developing an efficient and sustainable food chain, with benefits for farmers, the economy, consumers and the environment.
i would like to say, however, that the negative vote in these paragraphs was in defence of the precautionary principle and is not against the promotion of agricultural research, since i am convinced that innovation contributes constructively to the achievement of sustainable agriculture in the eu.
it advocates reducing the environmental footprint of agriculture and supports extensive animal husbandry.
i would also like to see the commission and the council agreeing on the need to encourage the recovery of animal protein by using waste from livestock production to produce animal protein feeds.
in the midst of some green rhetoric of concern about the loss of biodiversity and environmental protection, there is the apology for the increase in competitiveness - which has made current agricultural practices viable.
while innovation and new technologies can help farmers, agriculture and the environment, it is the economic and social model in which they are embedded that largely determines the nature - positive or negative - of their effects and whether or not they serve a primary purpose - profit - that overrides others.
technological innovation and agricultural technologies have the potential to make agriculture more productive and sustainable.
i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the challenges of sustainable agriculture must be met with a common strategy by the commission and the member states to ensure support for technological innovation, a risk-based and scientifically based regulatory framework, the continuity of basic research and the development of agricultural skills.
this situation requires the reduction of the ecological footprint of agricultural production in order to relieve the pressure on our environment and on arable land.
agriculture, to feed the world, must adapt to the challenge of climate change and make rational use of available resources.
technology is now driving intensive production which is endangering biodiversity and the balance of our planet.
‒ i voted in favour of the huitema report because i believe that economic development and sustainable production are not mutually exclusive and that it is possible to modernise european farms through innovation, research and development.
and stop wasting the union's time on coordinated action in the cfsp and csdp frameworks to resolve conflicts, combat terrorism and organised crime, strengthen the rule of law, and promote sustainable development in africa, its neighbourhood and beyond.
the eu-2020, behind the social and environmental rhetoric, is the implementation of policies that have materialized the degradation of the socioeconomic conditions of the populations, promoting labour flexibility and deregulation, the primacy of the deepening of the internal market, with the liberalizations and privatizations of even more economic sectors, the liberalization and deregulation of international trade.
three years after the signing of the sustainability compact we regard some of the commitments made by the government of bangladesh as positive.
the current figures show that most investment is actually concentrated in the richest and most developed regions of central europe, confirming a framework of private management of energy transport infrastructure, which should be public and placed at the service of development and not at the service of the accumulation of profits for large multinational companies.
we must break the taboo on public investment, and it must be in strategic sectors that create added value, such as the energy sector.
the strategic investment plan is one of the key tools for a change in the priorities of the european union, reinforcing investment, fostering growth and jobs and supporting competitive differentiation priorities such as the digital union, the energy union, industry 4.0 and the new smart grids.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in addition, tonga has significant wind power generation capacity and 90% of the 11th edf 2014-2020 envelope of eur 11 million is allocated to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
it is therefore in the interest of the union to have a homogeneous liability regime applicable to environmental damage caused by the transport of hns by sea.
it is considered to be in the eu's interest to have a homogeneous liability regime applicable to environmental damage caused by the transport of these substances by sea, which can only be achieved if parliament's recommendations are duly taken into account by the council and the commission.
as stated by the rapporteur, the objective of the 2010 hns convention is to ensure accountability and to provide adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the transport of harmful and dangerous substances by sea, ensuring a uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in the event of accidents within the eu.
as the proposal for a council decision aims to authorise member states to ratify or accede, on behalf of the union, to the 2010 hns protocol and subsequently to be bound by the 2010 hns convention, and as the latter covers not only cases of environmental damage (by applying the principles of preventive action and the polluter-pays principle) but also cases of non-environmental damage caused by the transport of certain substances by sea, the appropriate legal basis for the proposal is articles 100 (2), 192 (1) and 218 (6) (a) (v) tfeu.
it is considered to be in the interest of the union as a whole to have a uniform liability regime for environmental damage caused by the transport of hns by sea, which can only be achieved if parliament's recommendations are duly taken into account by the council and the commission.
it is therefore in the interest of the union to have a homogeneous liability regime applicable to environmental damage caused by the transport of hns by sea.
it is considered to be in the eu's interest to have a homogeneous liability regime applicable to environmental damage caused by the transport of these substances by sea, which can only be achieved if parliament's recommendations are duly taken into account by the council and the commission.
as stated by the rapporteur, the objective of the 2010 hns convention is to ensure accountability and to provide adequate, prompt and effective compensation for loss or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the transport of harmful and dangerous substances by sea, ensuring a uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in the event of accidents within the eu.
‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns convention, 2010) aims to ensure that adequate, prompt and effective liability and compensation for loss of or damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea is provided for by the hns specific international compensation fund.
i understand that the purpose of this interim report is to ensure that the creation of a uniform liability regime is implemented in the most efficient and fair manner possible, without prejudicing the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of union law and without creating an excessive disparity in the treatment of pollution victims and the shipping industry.
there is a risk of overlap between the hns convention and the european provisions on environmental liability, in particular as regards its scope, environmental damage and preventive measures to minimise it.
it is considered to be in the interest of the union as a whole to have a uniform liability regime for environmental damage caused by the transport of hns by sea, which can only be achieved if parliament's recommendations are duly taken into account by the council and the commission.
the pca thus strengthens eu-philippines cooperation across a range of policy areas, such as migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, illicit drugs, organised crime and corruption.
i agree that the eu should continue to provide financial support and capacity building assistance to the philippines in poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promoting peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, as well as assisting the country in disaster preparedness, relief and recovery and implementing effective policies to combat climate change.
i voted in favour of this report because it considers that the eu should continue to provide financial support to the philippines, promote peace, poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, security and judicial reform, disaster relief and the implementation of effective policies to combat climate change.
‒ the eu should continue to provide financial support and capacity-building assistance to the philippines in poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promotion of peace, security and judicial reform, as well as assistance in disaster preparedness, relief and recovery and the implementation of effective policies to combat climate change.
the eu should continue to support the country in poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, assisting the country in preparing for natural disasters, as well as in recovery and implementing effective policies to combat climate change.
this report states that the 'assistance programme will support the reforms undertaken by tunisia to improve its budgetary situation, balance of payments and create a more favourable investment climate'.
however, and in parallel to this political transition process, the country's economy has been affected by ongoing internal disturbances and a fragile international environment, such as the various terrorist attacks in 2015 aimed at disrupting the consolidation of the political transition.
the summit objective of this proposal being to support the reforms undertaken by tunisia to improve its budgetary situation, balance of payments and create a more favourable climate for employment and investment, i supported this report.
space capabilities and services play an important role, inter alia, in the context of european security and defence in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, environment, climate change, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian aid and transport.
space capabilities and services are considered to play an important role in a number of areas, such as external action, border management, maritime security or energy security.
given the potential of exploiting space capabilities, the european union should seek to exploit them in an efficient and sustainable manner, both in the context of security and defence policy and in other european union policies in areas such as external action, border management, agriculture, the environment, energy security, disaster management, maritime security, among others.
‒ the report continues the militaristic and warmongering policy of the european union, this time through space capabilities as an important instrument for external action, for border management, for internal, maritime and energy security and to improve the development of the european military industrial complex.
‒ the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and demanding, inside and outside the union, with terrorist attacks and mass killings affecting all member states.
the document also considers that space capabilities and services play an important role in this european defence context, helping in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, the environment, climate change, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian aid and transport.
current and future space services and capabilities will provide member states and the union with an enhanced operational capacity for the implementation of the common security and defence policy and other eu policies in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, environment, climate change, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian aid and transport.
space capabilities and services are considered to play an important role including in security and defence issues, covering here several areas where these space capabilities can play an important role: external action, border management, maritime security, energy security, to name a few.
‒ space capabilities play an important role in particular in the framework of response to crisis situations, such as natural disasters, in the efficient management of natural resources, in the provision of services, such as energy and transport, and in the field of security and defence.
i support this resolution which condemns the serious deterioration of the situation in venezuela in terms of democracy, human rights and socioeconomic conditions, as well as the growing climate of political and social instability, and i endorse the calls for a situation of stability in venezuela, urgent economic reforms in cooperation with the national assembly in order to find a solution to the economic and energy crisis and food shortages.
however, the maduro government refuses to implement economic reforms and to cooperate with the legislature in order to find a solution to the economic and energy crisis.
‒ this report expresses concern at the climate of political and social instability in venezuela and the consequent serious deterioration of the democratic situation, human rights and socioeconomic conditions, and expresses concern at the current institutional impasse and the use by the executive of state powers to control the supreme court and the national electoral council in order to prevent the implementation of legislative provisions and initiatives adopted by the national assembly.
‒ the united nations environment programme (unep) and the world health organisation (who) have identified endocrine disruptors as a threat on a global scale.
it is unacceptable that any economic criterion should take precedence over the protection of public health and the environment.
‒ genetically modified dianthus caryophyllus l., when it is no longer ornamental, becomes waste which can be managed through composting.
the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in this directive.
we insist that the right of member states and the will of consumers must be respected if they oppose the introduction of gmos for food and cultivation on their territory, taking into account the dangers to food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
‒ the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec, exceeding the implementing powers provided for in that directive.
‒ taking into account the importance of protecting human health and the environment, directive 2001/18/ec lays down general guidelines on the control of risks arising from the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms, in particular as regards the placing of such organisms on the market.
the proliferation of the use of genetically modified carnation could lead to an increase in the worldwide use of sulphonylureas, a substance associated with the treatment of type 2 diabetes, as herbicides, which could seriously affect not only public health, but also ecosystems and biodiversity and lead to contamination of water resources.
therefore, i am voting in favour, as i consider that the draft implementing decision of the european commission does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec, exceeding the implementing powers provided for therein, and therefore the commission should withdraw its draft implementing decision.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers set out in this directive.
it should be taken into account that the use of medicinal products for purposes other than public health, resulting in their uncontrolled spread in ecosystems, may have negative effects on global biodiversity and cause chemical contamination of drinking water.
ladies and gentlemen, this unilateral and illegal decision by japan, which will involve the slaughter of more than 4000 species over a period of 12 years, is a clear violation of international law and an attack on the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems.
a disappointing result, not only because of the insufficient mobilization of funds, but above all because of the inability to generate a push for the european union to take the lead in the industries of the future, in energy, digital and smart grids.
this resolution sets a clear challenge to the european institutions - to increase political support for the sector, to include it in the negotiating priorities of international trade treaties, to encourage investment and the creation of a collaborative context, to use this case as an aggregator for the publication of a communication on the reindustrialisation of europe in the context of the digital revolution and the energy transition - and also poses a challenge to national governments, regional and local authorities, businesses, knowledge centres and citizens.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
‒ the european railway equipment industry employs 400 000 people, invests 2.7% of its annual turnover in r&d, represents 46% of the global market for the industry and makes a key contribution to mitigating climate change and addressing demographic change.
finally, we call for a training strategy to ensure a viable railway equipment industry in the long term, support for smes, improvement of the market environment for suppliers, stimulation of investment and enhancement of competitiveness.
we also recall the key contribution of the rail sector to mitigating climate change and to addressing other major trends such as urbanisation and demographic change.
in line with the outcome of cop 21 and the eu's 2030 climate and energy targets, it is important that the commission and the council support the transition to rail and other energy-efficient and sustainable electrified transport in order to achieve the objective of decarbonising the transport sector.
support increased political support for the sector, including through its inclusion in the negotiation priorities of international trade treaties, encouraging investment and creating a collaborative environment.
as the author of some of the more 'controversial' amendments, i accept that the solution found could contribute to 'maintaining the stocks of harvested species at biomass levels that can generate the maximum sustainable yield'.
the common fisheries policy must contribute to the conservation of all species exploited, but also to the protection of the marine environment, since only in this way will the first major objective of this policy, which is maximum sustainable yield, be achieved.
mr president, commissioner, the commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency are the two pillars of the energy union and, at a time when the european union seems to be hesitating between leading the new cycle of globalisation or fragmenting and becoming globally irrelevant, the debate we are having here today has a very high practical and symbolic significance.
it is a debate about our ability to exploit endogenous resources in the strategic field of energy, a situation which is possible, as the example of portugal well illustrates.
it is essential that we have ambitious targets, in line with the paris agreement, to produce more clean and renewable energy, because that means creating wealth, jobs, reducing dependence on external energy suppliers.
but it is also crucial to set ambitious targets for energy efficiency, because this improves the competitiveness of businesses, it tackles energy poverty in households, it reduces emissions and it creates opportunities for new investment.
we need to produce more renewable energy, used efficiently in the framework of an interconnected and transparent european market.
a space we have to consolidate... (the president cut the speaker off)
increasing energy efficiency is a burning issue, particularly for countries like portugal, with a huge energy deficit and significant dependence on the outside world.
but this question cannot be tackled in a meaningful way, in all its breadth and complexity, within the narrow and restrictive framework of the so-called energy union and the liberalising and deregulating vision that guides it.
a recent positive development in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is more a result of the economic crisis than of the necessary but still to be achieved energy paradigm shift.
the framework of liberalisation and privatisation of the energy sector has brought high energy prices for average industrial consumers and households to sustain the profits of private monopolies and oligopolies in the sector, compromising the investments needed to increase energy efficiency.
we therefore stress the need for public and democratic control of the energy sector, which means public ownership and management, as an essential means of achieving desired and proclaimed economic, social and environmental objectives.
the application complies with article 4 (2) of the egf regulation, which provides for a derogation as regards the number of workers made redundant, and therefore belgium is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 824 041 under that regulation, representing 60% of the total cost of eur 3 040 069. i agree with the importance of improving the employability of all dismissed workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working career, and it is vital that the training offered is adapted not only to the needs of dismissed workers but also to the real environment of companies.
there are positive aspects, which we highlight: - the establishment of quotas takes account of the guidelines of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat); - the regulation is being extended to include a number of amendments that give value to traditional fishing techniques and coastal fishing, which are considered to be sustainable techniques, in particular through the use of objective criteria for the allocation of quotas at national level; - the role of iccat observers is being enhanced.
given the strong influence of biological interactions and environmental effects on the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea, it is appropriate to be able to adapt the rates and exploitation patterns of these stocks in the light of the evolution of scientific knowledge on those interactions and on the evolution of environmental conditions.
‒ the multiannual plan, one of the instruments underpinning the common fisheries policy (cfp) 2012 reform has as its primary objective to maintain stocks above levels that will allow a maximum sustainable yield.
there is a trend towards relaxing the limits and time periods to reach the levels needed for the sustainability of stocks, in particular by increasing the target range of mortality rates, and the minimum level of spawning biomass, or by making the proposed limits for 2015 to be met only in 2020. the multiannual plans have potential, but they suffer from some of the limitations and constraints inherent in the cfp itself.
the plan should ensure the sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities, while ensuring that management is based on the latest scientific information on interactions within and between stocks, as well as other elements of the ecosystem and the environment.
the specific objective of the initiative is to ensure that the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea are exploited in a sustainable manner, in accordance with the principles of maximum sustainable yield and an ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management.
to that end, the stocks concerned should be fished at levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield.
the plan shall provide for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities and, consequently, of the livelihoods of fishermen.
cod, herring and sprat are important components of the baltic ecosystem and, given the strong influence of biological interactions and environmental effects on the stocks of these species, it is desirable to be able to adapt exploitation patterns for these stocks in the light of the evolution of the latest scientific knowledge on those interactions and on the evolution of environmental conditions.
this report reflects agreement with the commission's proposal on the integration of balanced and sustainable exploitation of these species, which i support and therefore voted in favour of.
the objective is to establish a multi-species fisheries plan aimed at restoring, achieving and maintaining the populations of cod, herring and sprat species in the baltic sea above levels that can generate the maximum sustainable yield, while minimising as much as possible the impact on other species such as seabirds and the marine environment in general.
i support the present resolution which condemns these acts and calls for an end to belligerent violence with a view to a peaceful and sustainable resolution of the conflict and calls on the international criminal court to investigate these abuses, and that those responsible for war crimes, crimes against humanity, the recruitment of child soldiers and sexual violence against minors and adults be identified and punished in accordance with national and international criminal law.
i therefore express my deep concern at the escalation of violence and the worrying and increasingly serious humanitarian situation in the drc, and i agree with the call for the belligerents to put an immediate end to the violence, lay down their arms, release all children in their ranks and promote dialogue with a view to a peaceful and sustainable resolution of the conflict.
‒ in 2013, the congolese army brought the designated rebel group m23 under control, raising hopes that the environment of insecurity in eastern congo would evolve towards pacification.
however, several armed groups remain active, and the environment of insecurity, ethnic and political divisions, and conflict in the mining sector remains.
‒ the climate of civil war by armed groups in eastern congo remains extremely worrying, with the recruitment and use of children for war scenarios and systematic sexual violence against vulnerable population groups.
‒ the development of renewable energy sources requires a new approach that makes them the fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model.
we have a responsibility to fight climate change and reduce our dependence on energy resources from the rest of the world so that we can organise our production model, create quality jobs and be at the forefront of developing technologies for energy transition.
the transition to a sustainable energy production model is therefore a social priority that cannot be left to the market alone, we must understand that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to avoid social and environmental externalities.
the development of renewable energy will contribute to ensuring energy security and sovereignty, ending energy poverty and fostering the eu's economic development and technological leadership in combating climate change.
the electrification of transport, intelligent vehicle charging and 'vehicle-to-grid' technologies will contribute to improving energy efficiency and to unlocking the potential of renewable energy sources.
‒ regulation of the sector at european level should address the many problems holding back its development, by promoting public investment, democratic control and a stable framework for investment, in order to facilitate collective and democratic energy management and ensure a fully sovereign, efficient and clean energy model by 2050. the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority that cannot be left to the market alone.
on the contrary, we must understand that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to avoid serious social and environmental externalities.
the report rightly points out that the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority which cannot be left to the market alone.
on the contrary, we must understand that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to avoid serious social and environmental externalities.
we must prevent energy oligopolies from being able to define europe's energy future.
this sector regulation, in which the sovereign choices of each member state must weigh decisively, should solve the many problems hampering the development of renewable energies.
public investment, democratic control and a stable framework for investment should be encouraged in order to facilitate collective and democratic energy management and ensure a fully sovereign, efficient and clean energy model by 2050, according to the report.
‒ the eu as a whole is on track to meet its 2020 renewable energy targets, although additional, strengthened measures are needed in some member states.
we must therefore all continue to work together to achieve the stated objectives, to make the planet more sustainable for future generations.
‒ directive 2009/28/eu sets the european union as a target of 20% of energy consumption from renewable sources by 2020. in this context, it is essential to ensure that the commission's monitoring is strengthened to ensure that member states not only meet the objectives set out in the directive, but also adapt measures to that end.
combining renewable energy and energy efficiency policies are key factors that can help reduce the eu's energy dependence, as the eu imports more than half of its energy consumption, representing 20% of total imports.
i therefore vote in favour of this report, as i believe it is important that the european union has a long-term strategy to encourage investment in renewable energy.
‒ the european union has done exemplary work on renewable energy.
this report, a true statement of science on the relevant social and environmental externalities of today's energy production models, warns of the need to regulate the sector, ensuring its competitiveness and preventing, for example, energy oligopolies.
that said, in my view, and in the view of the group of which i am a member, this report has done well in emphasising renewable energy as one of the most effective ways of reducing dependence on fossil fuels and at the same time contributing to the creation of the so-called low-carbon economy.
the report also encourages competitiveness and cost-effectiveness in the renewable energy market, without prejudice to the diversity and safeguarding of member states' competences in this field.
and, not least, the document favours a sustainable energy system, in which dependence on subsidies is gradually supplied - and abolished - in a self-sufficient internal market regulated by the commission, especially as regards the price of energy.
‒ the future of the european union's energy model is fundamentally based on the development of renewable energy sources.
to achieve this desired model, it is imperative that we combat climate change and reduce our dependence on external energy (especially fossil fuels), by creating our own production model, which is more environmentally friendly, generating quality jobs and fostering the creation of a new technological (strategic) era in this field.
this energy production model must be a social priority, regulated and with broad participation of businesses and citizens, not dependent on the oligopolistic market and not entailing serious social and environmental externalities.
directive 2009/28/ec is the anchor legislative instrument underpinning the entire energy transition process to be undertaken by member states by 2020, although more ambitious targets need to be set in the light of what was recently established in the paris agreement.
i therefore support the rapporteur's view that this model of energy production must be developed, regulated at european level and made into an engine of economic growth capable of encouraging public investment, generating wealth, creating jobs and ensuring an energy-efficient and environmentally sustainable model in the long term.
‒ i voted in favour of the lópez bermejo report for sharing its conclusions, particularly in welcoming the european commission's proposed commitments in the field of renewable energy up to 2020 and the need to develop an ambitious legislative framework for the period after 2020. i stress that it is essential to set ambitious targets in line with the paris agreement and to produce more clean and renewable energy, to create wealth and jobs and to reduce strategic dependence on external suppliers.
i would stress in this connection the exploitation of endogenous resources in a strategic area such as energy, a development which is possible, as the example of portugal well illustrates.
‒ greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% in the eu between 1990 and 2014, while eu gdp increased by 46% in the same period.
the eu is therefore on track to meet its 2020 targets of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions, a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and a 20% increase in energy efficiency.
increasing energy efficiency and energy saving plays an important role in protecting the environment and the climate, enhancing the competitiveness of industry, creating jobs, ensuring security of supply and combating energy poverty.
i support this report because i believe that economic, regulatory and administrative barriers must be removed to allow citizens to participate in the energy system.
on the other hand, it is essential to start as soon as possible the transition to a more sustainable energy system based on renewable energies.
the proper functioning of an internal energy market, including that for energy efficiency services, contributes to the optimisation of energy systems for the benefit of all consumers and to a substantial improvement in energy efficiency in europe.
‒ greenhouse gas emissions fell by 23% in the eu between 1990 and 2014. in the same period, eu gdp increased by 46%.
the european union is on track to meet its 2020 targets of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions, a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and a 20% increase in energy efficiency.
the concerns that have been raised are related to the reporting bureaucracy and the high levels of energy prices for average industrial consumers and households.
‒ energy efficiency is a hot topic, particularly for countries like portugal with a huge energy deficit and significant external dependence.
the report deals with the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
it identifies interesting and relevant measures aimed at energy saving.
but it does so within the narrow and restrictive framework of the so-called 'energy union' and the liberalising and deregulating vision that guides it.
the report states that greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 23% in the eu between 1990 and 2014. it does not, however, mention the contribution to this of the economic crisis, any more than any energy paradigm transition.
it criticises the high energy prices for average industrial consumers and households.
it states that the effects of cost reduction through energy savings are eroded by state taxes.
as an indispensable means of achieving desired and proclaimed economic, social and environmental objectives.
‒ the eu is meeting its climate and energy targets for 2020 globally according to projections based on the principle of full implementation of all relevant legislation by 2020 (reduction of co2 emissions, increase in the share of renewable energy sources, boost energy efficiency) and should maintain its global leadership role.
we must therefore all continue to work together to achieve the stated objectives, to make the planet more sustainable for future generations.
‒ energy efficiency directive 2012/27/eu establishes a common framework for promotion measures in the european union to ensure the achievement of the union's 20% energy efficiency target by 2020. achieving good levels of energy efficiency is also key to achieving the climate objectives set out at the paris summit in december 2015 and to reducing the european union's energy dependence on imports.
in this regard, the directive should be revised in some of its aspects in order to promote a transition to a more sustainable and secure energy system and to ensure that consumers have access to information on the conditions and sources of energy supply, including through increased transparency and clarity in billing.
in this respect, i vote in favour of this report as i consider the revision and full implementation of the directive to be essential if the energy efficiency objectives are to be achieved.
‒ the european union today has a key role to play in promoting intergenerational responsibility, with a particular responsibility to foster an energy system in which current generations are committed to fighting climate change for the benefit of future generations.
in this line of reasoning, this report rightly stresses the importance of energy efficiency in meeting the so-called 'climate targets' and the need for a flexible and unbureaucratized energy system, which monitors and clarifies the definition of smes and state aid.
on the one hand, it enshrines an unsatisfactory solution to the 40% energy efficiency target for 2030 (also contained in the resolutions of 5 february 2014, 26 november 2014 and 15 october 2015).
‒ i voted in favour of the pieper report for agreeing with this report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive, including the finding that there is still a lot to be done in the area of energy performance of buildings and the call for a strong regulatory framework consisting of the adoption of objectives and measures to encourage and enable investment in energy efficiency and reduction of energy costs and consumption, while supporting competitiveness and sustainability.
as i have said in the field of renewable energy, it is also essential in the field of energy efficiency to set ambitious targets in line with the paris agreement and to produce more clean and renewable energy, to create wealth and jobs and to reduce strategic dependence on external suppliers.
i therefore believe that energy efficiency should be seen as the most sustainable measure within the framework of the obligation to reduce our energy consumption.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
without secure employment there is no emancipation of young people and without this it becomes difficult to ensure a sustainable economic and social development roadmap.
but aligning the trade agenda with sustainable development is not just about words, it has to be about contractual clauses and concrete measures.
the european union has a duty to use its trade clout to promote sustainable development worthy of the name, and this is particularly true in its strategic partnership with the acp countries which are now defining their post-2020 framework.
because only then can we be sure that, beyond words, the union's trade agenda serves sustainable development and deserves the trust of citizens.
‒ the main objective of this report is to strike a balanced balance between health and environmental concerns and the competitiveness of the eu manufacturing industry and job creation.
in addition to the environmental and health benefits for citizens, it contributes to the creation of a harmonised internal market for industry and machinery users, which will facilitate trade and competitiveness and strengthen the eu's external trade with other developed industrial economies.
with this legislation, we provide industry with certainty for long-term planning and a stable regulatory environment.
‒ despite some recent improvements, air pollution in europe remains a concern.
in september 2014, the european commission presented a revised proposal for the approval of emission limits for non-road mobile machinery, which covers a wide range of machinery with internal combustion engines that contribute to air pollution.
this is one of the sectors which needs to be regulated, even though it is responsible for a minority of emissions.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has made some changes to the initial version.
concerns should be focused on the protection of the environment and the health of the population.
these engines contribute significantly to air pollution and are responsible for around 15% of nitrogen oxides (nox) and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the eu.
this proposal aims to protect human health and the environment and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for engines installed in nrmm.
‒ environmental sustainability is also key to achieving the climate goals outlined at the paris summit in december 2015, as well as to reducing the european union's dependence on imported energy.
this proposal for a regulation takes account of environmental objectives set by the union in setting european union emission limits and type-approval procedures for engines intended for non-road mobile machinery.
the proposal for a regulation introduces a number of measures which, if properly implemented, can make a decisive contribution to reducing the environmental impact of these equipment, in particular by promoting the use of more efficient equipment and reducing the use of fossil fuels, channelling funding routes to innovative projects that reduce tailpipe emissions, promoting the use of portable emission measurement systems, controlling the type of imported engines entering the eu market, among other measures.
in the european union, this range of machinery is responsible for about 15% of nox emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions.
i think it is important to note that the proposal in question contains a very satisfactory set of measures to reduce these emissions, such as the extension of the transitional period granted to companies for the replacement of their machinery, the simplification of the implementation phases of projects to introduce new emission levels, the possibility of replacing old engines with new engines with better environmental performance, a new monitoring system which will ensure that the emissions tested in laboratories are in line with those recorded in the real world and, last but not least, the relevant role given to the european parliament in this matter.
i believe that the union is thus working to restore european citizens' confidence in the fulfilment of the obligations imposed on companies in the field of the environment.
in addition to the obvious and desirable environmental and health effects for our citizens, this has the advantage of creating a harmonized internal market for industry and machine users and of facilitating trade and competitiveness, ultimately making environmental legislation a commercial opportunity as well.
we must try to find a balance between health and environmental concerns, as proposed by the commission, the competitiveness of the eu manufacturing industry and job creation.
several urban areas in europe do not fully comply with air quality standards and, to some extent, this quality is compromised by the contribution of harmful emissions from the nrmm (non-road mobile machinery) sector, in the form of gases or particles, to the atmosphere, with serious harm to public health.
for the sake of air quality, the environment and the health of citizens, i voted in favour of this report, which will also bring benefits in terms of harmonising the internal market, facilitating trade and enhancing the competitiveness of the manufacturing industry in the european union.
‒ air pollution in europe remains a concern despite improvements.
this is one of the sectors which needs to be regulated, even though it is responsible for a minority of emissions.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has made some changes to the initial version.
concerns should be focused on the protection of the environment and the health of the population.
nrmms have a significant, very negative impact on air pollution, accounting for about 15% of nitrogen oxides (nox) and 5% of particulate matter in the calculation of total eu emissions.
while the standards governing road vehicle emissions have become stricter, the same has not been the case in the nrmms.
i therefore welcome the amendments tabled in this connection, in particular the obligation for manufacturers to make publicly available the co2 emissions determined during the type-approval process.
a holistic approach to migration requires that eu external policies demonstrate their ability to tackle the root causes of migration, such as conflict, poverty, lack of freedoms, inequalities and extreme environmental conditions.
‒ in november 2010, the european parliament adopted a set of recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility in two reports focusing on the respect for these dimensions in trade policy and the conclusion of trade agreements.
i acknowledge that important steps have been taken in recent years, such as the adoption of the generalised system of preferences (gsp and gsp+) or the consideration of sustainable development objectives and the defence of human rights in the commission's 'trade for all' strategy.
i believe that trade policy is an instrument for promoting the values of the european union and must therefore safeguard respect for social and environmental standards and combat human rights violations such as slavery or forced labour.
‒ in the framework of the 'trade for all' strategy, sustainable development is identified as one of the main objectives to be pursued by the european union, as stated in the treaties establishing it.
i therefore vote in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to ensure that the recommendations made by the european parliament are implemented in practice in order to promote sustainable and integrated development.
‒ in november 2010, the european parliament adopted the following reports: human rights, social and environmental standards in international trade and corporate social responsibility in international trade agreements.
this is without prejudice to the recognition that much remains to be done in this area, especially as many developing countries will be reluctant to include social and environmental responsibility measures.
the commission and the member states should mainstream a gender mainstreaming approach in all their policies, including trade policy, ensure coordination between development aid and trade policy, promote respect for international standards on human rights, gender equality, labour law and environmental protection, and promote binding measures to ensure that companies pay taxes where they carry out their economic activity.
‒ this own-initiative report notes that while some of the european parliament's 2010 recommendations on social, environmental, human rights and corporate social responsibility (csr) legislation have been implemented, others have not.
the european union (eu) trade strategy should be a tool for the promotion of democratic values in third countries as well as for the promotion of human, labour and environmental rights through the strengthening of trade preference agreements or programmes.
the eu should also strengthen its leading role in the review of multilateral trade policy - at global level - and in mechanisms for the inclusion of social, environmental and human resource dimensions.
‒ i voted in favour of the forenza report on the implementation of the 2010 parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility, as i believe that the eu has the capacity to make a positive contribution to greater respect for human rights and sustainable development worldwide through its trade policy as proposed in this report.
i stress that the european commission must act with the understanding that trade and investment agreements have implications for human rights and sustainable development and must therefore be designed to support social and environmental progress, ensuring that european standards are not compromised, safeguarding human rights and ensuring respect for social and environmental standards.
at the same time, an effective enforcement mechanism should be included for labour and environmental rights, similar to what we apply to human rights verification.
in the context of the new strategy, the importance of a coherent approach between the union's trade objectives and the other aspects of its external policy should be stressed, as trade agreements should be understood as an instrument conducive to strengthening sustainable development, the promotion of human rights, labour and social rights and environmental sustainability.
it is therefore important that this strategy is people-centred and people-driven, bringing a higher level of transparency and accountability to trade negotiations - both current and future - that ensure sustainable development and promote respect for human rights, labour, social and sustainability standards worldwide.
trade is not an end in itself, but a means to achieve prosperity and equality, promote business opportunities, sustainable economic development, social progress and cultural understanding, increase employment and raise living standards without increasing public spending.
this will create a more favourable and fairer tax environment for all businesses in the european union.
having invested considerable efforts towards the paris climate deal, we now need to begin delivery across the full range of our climate and energy policies.
by the end of the year, we will make proposals on renewables and energy efficiency.
the strategic priorities set are appropriate to the challenges the eu faces - improving the living conditions of europeans, strengthening the economy, responding to the opportunities associated with the energy transition and the digital revolution, integrating refugees, completing economic and monetary union, developing an ambitious foreign policy and tackling tax evasion.
azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the eu.
however, the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations goes beyond energy security and the relevance of this partnership should be assessed taking into account all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the framework of the eastern partnership.
interest in azerbaijan is inseparable from the strategy of political and economic encirclement of russia, the situation in ukraine and interest in the country's vast energy resources - in the shadow of which major investments have been made by european corporations in the sector (as is the case with bp).
ensuring access to and control over natural resources, particularly energy, is vital for the eu, which, faced with a serious crisis, is stepping up its policy of interference and using all political, economic, diplomatic and other mechanisms to weaken sovereign states, subordinate them to the interests of the eu's great powers and their capitalist monopolies, hungry for new markets and greater exploitation of man and nature to generate more profits, which they need to counter the crisis of profitability they are in and the inexorable tendency of the profit rate to fall.
azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the eu and, despite the impasse in negotiations, in october 2012 azerbaijan expressed interest in participating in union programmes.
it also reflects the eu's strategy to reduce energy dependence on that country.
azerbaijan has huge energy resources which the big european multinationals want to access, to the detriment of its own energy sovereignty.
azerbaijan is a relevant partner of the union in the energy field and the importance of its relations is not limited to energy.
azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the eu, although this framework agreement goes far beyond energy and covers other areas of cooperation within the eastern enp.
the interest in azerbaijan is embedded in the political and economic encirclement of russia, as well as in the situation in ukraine and in the interest in the immense energy resources that the country has.
with this new legislation, all eu member states, major internet companies and infrastructure operators such as e-commerce platforms, social networks, transport, banking and healthcare have to ensure a secure and reliable digital environment across the eu.
this directive therefore requires operators providing essential services in sectors such as energy, transport, health and banking, and providers of digital services such as online marketplaces, to take a number of measures to resist cyber-attacks.
this will be achieved by requiring member states to increase their level of preparedness and cooperation with each other and by requiring operators of critical infrastructures, such as energy, transport and the main providers of information society services (e-commerce platforms, social networks, etc.
it was found that operators providing essential services in sectors such as energy, transport, health and banking, and digital service providers such as search engines, should adopt several measures to resist cyber attacks.
it is also an important precondition for creating a reliable environment for trade in services worldwide.
‒ the resolution proposes to simplify the current system to an a to g scale in order to make it easier to compare energy consumption between different appliances.
the aim is a new, more transparent scale and clear labels indicating the energy efficiency class by its absolute consumption in kwh over a given period.
the new system could save energy equivalent to the annual consumption of the baltic states (200 twh per year in 2030).
the reduction in demand would lead to a reduction in co2 emissions and a decrease in dependence on suppliers such as russia.
the energy labelling directive was adopted in 2010 with the stated aim of encouraging consumers to buy more efficient products.
the rescaling relevant concern aims to combine the occupation of energy efficiency classes by the product models available on the market with the technological evolution of the product group, facilitating a correct reading of the information to be transmitted and avoiding a distribution of the models by classes that potentiates misreadings and misinterpretations.
‒ the european union has been working towards a true energy union, with an energy and climate policy geared to the new challenges of the 21st century.
energy efficiency is essential to achieve the climate objectives set out at the paris summit in december 2015. in this context, the energy-efficiency labelling of equipment can contribute positively to achieving the union's 2030 energy efficiency targets.
energy labelling allows consumers to make more informed choices about the most energy efficient products/equipment at the energy endpoint.
although this has already been regulated by the european union, the transposition of directive 2010/30/eu has led to the adoption of different energy labelling scales and the adoption of this regulation is therefore intended to ensure a uniform application of energy labelling.
i therefore vote in favour of this proposal, as i consider it important that consumers have access to clear and accessible information on the energy efficiency of the equipment they purchase, regardless of the member state in which they do so.
‒ directive 2010/30/ec has made it possible to create an energy efficiency label, allowing citizens to have a better understanding of the environmental impact and life cycle of the products they purchase.
however, consumer confidence in energy efficiency has been shaken after the so-called 'volkswagen scandal', and it is therefore important to increase the transparency and simplicity of the energy labelling framework.
‒ this legislative initiative concerns a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the need to establish a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu.
we all know that the introduction of these labels has given citizens a more detailed knowledge of consumption, environmental impact and the life cycle of products.
the analysis carried out showed that several aspects of the previous directive needed to be amended and a regulation was chosen as this is the legal instrument capable of avoiding different transpositions in different member states and also allowing greater transparency for consumers and authorities with regard to products related to the energy sector in the eu.
i support, in general, the commission's proposals to replace the current energy labelling system and to introduce a mechanism for the re-scaling of energy efficiency classes, as well as the creation of a product database and the imposition of obligations on economic operators.
‒ this report proposes to combine the occupation of energy efficiency classes by the product models available on the market with the technological evolution of the product group.
since the post-rescaling distribution of product models by energy efficiency classes a to g will have significant market implications, a flexible 'driving' approach is maintained, proposing three decreasing options of 'rescaling intensity': c-g (with two empty classes at the top), b-g (an empty class) and a-g (no empty classes).
‒ i voted in favour of the tamburrano report because i agree with the need to align the progress made in energy efficiency with a new type of labelling that allows consumers to make informed choices about the most energy-efficient products.
i am in favour of environmentally and consumer-friendly energy labelling so that you can get accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy efficiency and consumption of products wherever you are in the eu and thus make informed purchasing decisions at a good cost-effectiveness.
i believe that coherent legislation on energy labelling also benefits the free movement of products and promotes the competitiveness of european companies while encouraging them to innovate in the european area.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of the internal market, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the health and safety of workers and the environment.
emsa was established to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety, protection of shipping and prevention and control of pollution caused by ships.
‒ currently, more than 300 civil and military authorities from the member states carry out coast guard functions, including security, search and rescue, border control, fisheries control, customs control, police and environmental protection.
this proposal is consistent with the objectives of european maritime transport policy and the european maritime safety agency, which was set up to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of safety, protection of maritime transport and prevention and control of pollution.
‒ national authorities performing coast guard functions are responsible for a large number of functions in fields as diverse as security, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and police.
it gives examples of the migration crisis, low investment, youth unemployment, 'internal security' issues, the agricultural crisis, environmental challenges and payment delays.
it is aimed at all regions and cities in the european union to support job creation, business competitiveness, economic growth and sustainable development and to improve the quality of life of citizens.
i support this report as i consider it necessary to increase synergies with other eu policies on competitiveness, in particular in the field of research and development, ict, renewable energy with a view to increasing the rate of exploitation of r & d results in the eu, creating new high-quality jobs and maintaining existing ones, and promoting the green economy.
cohesion policy should be in sync with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the esi funds, by virtue of the common provisions, are perfectly aligned with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in doing so, it should be result-oriented by enhancing synergies with other european policies in terms of enhancing competitiveness, particularly in areas focusing on research and development, information and communication technologies, renewable energy and smes.
i believe that to close this gap, synergies with other eu competitiveness policies, in particular in the field of research and development, ict, renewable energy and smes, should be strengthened with a view to better exploiting the results of research carried out in the eu, creating new high-quality jobs and maintaining existing ones, as well as promoting the green economy.
the eu is our common home and must provide its citizens with a safe space and a stable economic environment.
the commission should therefore take into account in its 2017 programme: improving the working and living conditions of european citizens; strengthening economic recovery and long-term competitiveness with a view to creating jobs, raising living standards and generating prosperity; an adequate response to climate change, ensuring energy security; a consistent response to the increased influx of refugees; citizens' security concerns; the implementation of an ambitious external action agenda; fair fiscal policies; the strengthening of the eu budget and financial instruments and the strengthening of fundamental rights and democracy.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the preparation of the commission work programme for 2017, as i agree with the strategic priorities presented for the european commission work programme for 2017. the strategic priorities set are appropriate to the challenges facing the eu: improving the living conditions of europeans, strengthening the economy, responding to the opportunities associated with the energy transition and the digital revolution, integrating refugees, completing economic and monetary union, developing an ambitious foreign policy and fighting tax evasion.
those activities constitute a violation of international law and undermine the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems, in particular because many of the targeted and non-targeted species caught are endangered.
considering that japan is a strategic partner of the european union and that the bilateral relationship is based on common values, including a firm belief in effective multilateralism and a rules-based international order, the eu should use its weight on the international scene and condemn the resumption of whaling practices in japan, as the protection and promotion of the environment and biodiversity should be a key element of its action.
i am voting in favour of this because i believe that whaling is threatening the survival of species and biodiversity in our oceans and that the eu should adopt a common position on this matter.
considering that it is important to protect marine biodiversity and ensure the conservation of species, as well as to respect the international conclusions defined by the international whaling commission, i vote in favour.
these activities constitute a violation of international law and undermine the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems, especially as many of the targeted and non-targeted species caught are endangered.
the implementation of the generalised scheme of trade preferences since january 2014 is a very important step in this direction, as is the systematic inclusion in our trade and foreign investment policy since 2012 of impact assessments on human rights and sustainable development.
i am referring in particular to the case of energy drinks, which are regularly consumed by some 68% of adolescents and 18% of children.
i reiterate the importance of promoting the values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law on which the eu is founded and which also underpin the un acquis, and the need to achieve the sustainable development goals and to set an agenda for policy coherence for development.
the 'challenges' listed are: violent conflict, terrorism, organised crime, unprecedented migration, climate change, hybrid and information warfare, cyber threats, bioengineering, lethal autonomous systems, nanotechnologies, the miniaturisation of weapons systems and the proliferation of dual-use technologies.
it is not worthwhile to enumerate the enormous contradictions of the eu with regard to the supposed defence of the environment or democracy and human rights.
it is sarcastic to claim that the eu is a promoter of environmental sustainability when its environmental policies are in the service of the market and financial interests.
‒ i want to reinforce the attention that needs to be given to: the role of women in peace processes; the representation of women at all levels of decision-making; children's rights; gender equality; nuclear non-proliferation and global disarmament; human rights in migration; zero tolerance for the death penalty; lgbti rights; the definition of climate refugees and absolute intransigence on respect for human rights.
in this context, i would like to stress that one of those recommendations is to ensure that the eu remains at the forefront of the fight against climate change and that it cooperates with the un in this area.
i agree that swift implementation of the decisions taken at the 2015 united nations climate change conference in paris must be ensured.
if humanity fails to address the enormous climate change problem that it has caused, humanity will be one of the victims.
it is ironic that the eu claims to promote environmental sustainability when the opposite is true.
the intention of the european union's policies is to put the supposed protection of the environment at the service of the market and business.
‒ i agree that energy drinks should not be labelled as 'helping to increase alertness' and 'improving concentration' because this labelling could encourage young people to consume these sugary drinks which are associated with sleep and behavioural problems in children and adolescents.
adolescents are the largest group of energy drink consumers: 68% of adolescents and 18% of children regularly consume these drinks.
the world health organisation (who) recommends that adults and children should not get more than 10% of their daily energy intake from free sugars and that a reduction to less than 5% (about 25 g) per day would have additional health benefits.
the problems are mainly related to the consumption of energy drinks by adolescents.
under that regulation, the commission should have established by january 2009 the specific nutritional profiles to be met by foods or categories of foods in order to be able to make nutrition or health claims, and the conditions for the use of nutrition and health claims with regard to the nutritional profiles, in particular with regard to the caffeine content of energy drinks.
i am voting in favour of this because i believe that this proposal for a regulation should be revised to restrict the access of children and adolescents to energy drinks.
the problems are mainly related to the consumption of energy drinks by adolescents.
for example, a 250 ml can of an energy drink may contain up to 27 g of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine.
i therefore disagree with the idea that energy drinks can be labelled as healthy, especially when 18% of children consume them regularly.
mr president, commissioner, the creation of the single energy market does not serve any other purpose than that pursued in other areas, namely to defend the interests and the profit motive of the major european economic groups in the sector, to promote monopolistic concentration on a european scale.
with more or less flourishing social and environmental interests, the legislative process is reproducing the specifications of these interests, either in terms of the ambitious integration of markets or in terms of infrastructure development, the latter supported by instruments such as the juncker plan, which puts public resources in the pockets of large private economic groups, which now control strategic infrastructure.
only with democratic public control of the energy sector, which means public ownership and management of production and distribution companies, can we answer burning questions such as energy efficiency, diversification, the advance of renewables, security of supply, among others.
the financing of corrupt and authoritarian regimes to create fences and barriers to control people and intensify the suffocation in which they live betrays our values and principles, is an ineffective and unsustainable policy, and a shameful waste of european taxpayers' money.
in this way, economic growth, deregulation of international trade and climate issues are being tried to reconcile, all duly wrapped up with social justice.
financial instability, corruption, social inequalities and global warming are just some of the many faces of neoliberal policies in the service of big international capital.
they also show a good understanding of solutions, reinforcing the growth agenda, increasing transparency, ensuring territorial equity in the impact on economic relations, addressing the issues that multiply refugee crises and unsustainable migratory flows, fighting terrorism and responding to the challenges of climate change.
economic growth, deregulation of international trade and capital movements, climate, social justice - these are some of the ingredients of the g20's cuisine, which basically seeks to cure the sick by injecting them with a generous dose of the disease-causing agent.
financial instability, corruption, social inequalities and the environmental degradation of the planet are just some of the many faces of neoliberal policies in the service of big international capital.
it is also in urban centres that most of europe's citizens live and work, and are thus exposed to the harmful effects of air pollution, which is a real threat to public health.
according to data from the european environment agency this year, more than 70 000 people die prematurely in the european union as a result of high levels of nitric oxide in the atmosphere.
let's focus on technological innovation, let's look to meet the needs of citizens for a better quality of life in cities, let's focus on more sustainable and more efficient urban transport, let's focus on renewables and cleaner and cheaper electric mobility, and let's look at what others, our competitors, are doing right now.
it is a shame that we were not able to detect and act on the fuel emissions fraud and that others did it for us.
i stress that the implementation of these strategies should seek to promote interregional cooperation, also promoting synergies between eu research infrastructures, in the context of cohesion policy 2014-2020. the full implementation of the urban agenda, focusing on the creation of smart cities, should be a priority, as should the areas of renewable energy, the digital agenda or public health, as per the swot analysis of each region.
‒ in this time of economic, financial and social crisis, the eu must step up its efforts towards smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
‒ i agree with the rapporteur that in this era of economic recession and consequently of budgetary scarcity and increasingly tough competition at world level, it is crucial for the eu to improve its capacity for innovation in a sustainable way.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is increasingly important to focus on sustainable innovation as a way of coping with the shortage of budgetary resources and competition at a global level.
‒ in a period of economic recession, and as a result of the constraints of the euro, it should be crucial for the eu to improve its capacity for innovation in a sustainable way.
‒ i voted in favour of the valcárcel siso report, as i believe that the proposals put forward for smart specialisation strategies contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives through sustainable knowledge-based growth, balanced development and the creation of high-quality jobs.
i believe that in the 25 years of interreg, best practices in the areas of financial guidance in the areas of connectivity, mobility and accessibility; support for innovation and science; increasing the competitiveness of smes; preventing natural disasters; promoting inclusive growth based on employment, education and training; and sustainable management of environmental and energy resources should be brought together.
the etc has also enabled joint responses to environmental problems such as joint monitoring of watersheds, better use of marine resources and by-products, creating artificial reefs to improve biodiversity, joint cooperation in harmonising activities on flood prevention and water quality improvement and improving spatial planning and risk management in the alpine area, as well as addressing other environmental challenges such as coastal pollution, forest fire risk and improved monitoring of ports, etc.
the same document says that the european commission is struggling to address the growing discrepancy between emissions in driving conditions and those generated in test cycles and that member states have not been supportive or rigorous in implementing and enforcing legislation on car emissions.
i am voting in favour of this report and i believe that we must move towards an electric car industry which contributes to the sustainability of cities and to the improvement of the living conditions of all citizens.
in december 2015, following the so-called 'automotive emissions scandal', the european parliament set up a 45-member committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches of community law relating to the measurement of emissions from the automotive sector (without prejudice to the powers of national or european union courts).
the committee on legal affairs considers that the facts of the case, as evidenced by the documents provided and the rosario crocetta hearing, show that the statements in question have a direct and obvious link with rosario crocetta's parliamentary activities and are closely associated, at political level, with the fight against organised crime and its influence on politics and the economy, in particular as regards public procurement in the field of environmental policy.
the methodology was changed in 2007 to take account of the liberalisation of energy markets.
however, this report is just another chapter in the specifications of the european single market and the so-called energy union, masked here and there with pretended good intentions.
‒ competitiveness, sustainability and energy security are the overarching objectives of a resilient energy union with a visionary climate change policy.
high-quality, comparable, up-to-date, reliable and harmonised information on natural gas and electricity prices charged to final customers is necessary to define the energy union policy and monitor member states' energy markets.
this regulation aims to make available european statistics to support energy policies, in particular those aimed at the creation of a fully integrated internal energy market for consumers.
there should be greater transparency of energy costs and prices, as well as public support, to improve market integration.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider it important that data on the prices actually paid by household consumers should be made public, since this proposal promotes social justice and scrutiny of the energy market.
however, this report is just another chapter in the specifications for the european single market and the european energy union, masked here and there with pretended good intentions.
‒ the electricity market must lead to the effective transformation of the electricity market, contribute to efficiency and security of supply, as well as to the development of renewable energy and interconnections, and ensure the completion of the internal european energy market.
the european energy market, if well designed and properly implemented, has the potential to substantially increase europe's energy security and independence, in particular vis-à-vis the main suppliers on which the union depends.
i support this report because i believe it is important to review the existing regulatory framework to encourage the use of energy storage systems with the aim of feeding a higher proportion of energy from intermittent renewable sources into the energy system at a lower marginal cost.
better integration and coordination of energy markets holds multiple opportunities to achieve the common european objectives of secure, sustainable and affordable energy supply.
‒ the future of the electricity market must be achieved by creating an eu-wide electricity market that sends a clear price signal for new investment, by creating a european approach to security of energy supply and by strengthening regional cooperation in the energy sector, in particular with regard to investments in new power plants, interconnections and support schemes, and the integration of renewable energies into the european single market.
sustainable energy prices and security of supply are essential for the standard of living of households, but also for job security in energy-intensive enterprises.
‒ the european commission has set out three policy objectives for the future single energy market: 1. to create an eu-wide electricity market; 2. to create an eu approach to security of energy supply; 3. to strengthen regional cooperation in the energy sector, in particular with regard to investments in new power plants, interconnections and support schemes, and the integration of renewable energies into the single market.
in essence, the report advocates the liberalisation of the 'energy market', pressing member states to accelerate the process of privatising what is still public.
energy is a strategic sector, fundamental to the sovereign economic development of the country, supported by scientific knowledge, technological progress and environmental sustainability.
‒ the energy sector is an extremely important sector and requires strategic planning.
it is essential to promote renewable energy and to look at energy as a public good to which everyone should have fair access.
i also believe that questions such as the development of renewable energy, energy efficiency and environmental sustainability can only be answered with public management and control.
‒ the integration of energy markets, linked to the integration of all market players, including 'producer-consumers', will contribute to achieving the treaty objective of secure, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy supply.
in order to achieve climate and energy objectives, the energy system of the future should be more flexible, and therefore investment in all flexibility solutions, namely flexible generation, network development and demand and storage, is necessary.
it is therefore important that the new energy union strategy is designed to make the eu a leader in renewable energy.
‒ the increasing dependence in recent years on oil and gas imports, the lack of diversification, the high price of energy, the increase in energy demand, the security risks for producing countries, the fight against climate change, the slow progress in energy efficiency, renewable energy quotas have become the major challenges in the field of energy europe.
on 15 july 2015, the european commission published a series of european internal market documents with three policy objectives for the future electricity market: to create an eu-wide electricity market, to develop a european approach to the security of energy supply and to strengthen regional cooperation in the energy sector.
i agree with the rapporteur that better integration and coordination of energy markets offers many opportunities to achieve the common european objectives of secure, sustainable and affordable energy supply.
i stress the importance of this approach at eu level, as acceptable energy prices and security of supply are essential for the standard of living of households as well as for job security in companies.
‒ dependence on gas and oil imports, lack of diversification, growing global energy demand, slow progress in energy efficiency and increasing the share of renewable energy are some of the energy challenges europe is facing today.
in july 2015, the commission presented a series of documents on the design of a new european energy market configuration, which are followed by this document.
the report aims to strengthen the european internal energy market, based on three main objectives: facilitating the circulation of energy, ensuring price stability for investors; efficient and safe use of energy storage capacities; and, through regional cooperation in the sector, increasing investment and improving the integration of renewable energies.
i am voting in favour of this report, but i am also of the opinion that article 194 of the tfeu, which states that european energy policy must ensure the functioning of the energy market and the security of supply, must be respected.
i would also point out that the definition of the energy mix of the member states and the conditions for exploiting their energy resources remains a national prerogative.
‒ i voted in favour, as i believe that it is necessary to continue protecting european consumers, since sustainable energy prices are essential for the standard of living of households, but also for job security in energy-intensive companies.
this report aims to create an eu-wide electricity market by strengthening regional cooperation in the energy sector, integrating renewable energies into the european single market and limiting dependence on oil and gas imports, with the ultimate aim of making the union energy self-sufficient, thus reducing dependence on third countries.
‒ mr president, we need a new energy market design that takes account of the variable nature of electricity supply, moving away from the traditional centralised model and towards a more flexible system based on renewable energy produced at local level.
a new energy market configuration, coupled with the implementation of existing legislation, strengthens regional cooperation in all aspects of energy security and demand, and should focus on improved, more decentralised and more flexible markets, in order to ensure a well-regulated market-based system with the capacity to deliver all the eu's 2030 energy and climate targets.
‒ a public consultation on the new energy market configuration was launched in the context of the commission's communication of 15 july last year.
the communication sets out three clear policy objectives: an eu-wide market that sends a clear price signal for new investment; a new european approach to security of supply; enhanced regional cooperation in the sector, in particular with regard to investment in new power stations, interconnections and support schemes; and the integration of renewable energy into the european single market.
europe faces energy challenges related to increased dependence on oil and gas imports, high energy prices, growing global demand, security risks in producing and transit countries and the fight against climate change.
as a portuguese, i consider the full integration of the european market to be an absolute priority, without, of course, neglecting the other aspects highlighted in the commission's communication and supported by this report - such as the importance of reducing external energy dependence or lowering the price of energy.
‒ the report is essentially about liberalising the 'energy market' once again, by pressing member states to speed up the process of privatising what is still public.
energy is a strategic sector, fundamental to the economic, social and sovereign development of a country and its people, which must be used efficiently, avoiding waste, accompanying scientific and technological knowledge, with ecological sustainability, for the raising of the living conditions of society, and therefore must belong to the public and democratic sphere.
this mechanism has the effect of distorting the internal market and has an impact on the energy bills of european consumers.
i believe that the increasing focus on renewables as energy sources should, in the long term, allow these capacity mechanisms to be discontinued.
‒ heating and cooling is the largest energy sector in the european union, accounting for 50% of eu energy consumption.
of this half of global consumption, only 18% comes from renewable sources and 75% from fossil sources.
the size of this area makes it a priority for the energy union and this report, as the first energy efficiency strategy for the sector, is of great importance.
i would like to see any comprehensive reform in this sector promoting scientific initiative and research in energy technologies, and thus making the energy transition a sustained process based on credible and transparent cost-benefit analyses.
it is in the thermal renovation of buildings that the greatest gains in energy efficiency can be made in the countries that joined the union after 2004. it is essential to substantially increase the financing of thermal renovation works for entire residential areas, in particular those built using the large-panel method of construction.
at least 25% of the total resources of the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund shall be dedicated to this purpose.
it is in the thermal renovation of buildings that major gains in energy efficiency can be achieved, ensuring a considerable reduction in co2 emissions.
‒ i think it is very important that this report talks about the reduction, albeit gradual but significant, of the use of fossil fuels, because i believe that we must move towards a smarter and more sustainable use of resources, in particular the increased use of renewable energy.
however, this report refers to the production of energy from waste (incinerators) which i do not agree with, which is why i abstained.
‒ further efforts are needed to reduce the heating needs of buildings and to replace the remaining needs of imported fossil fuels used in individual boilers with sustainable heating and cooling options, in line with the union's 2050 targets.
buildings represent a huge percentage of total final energy consumption and energy efficiency improvements in buildings and demand response programmes can play a central role in balancing energy demand and meeting needs during peak demand periods, reducing overcapacity and lowering production, operating and transport costs.
the strategy for heating and cooling should prioritise sustainable and cost-effective solutions that enable member states to meet the union's climate and energy policy targets.
‒ the growing dependence on oil and gas imports in recent years, the lack of diversification, the high price of energy, the increase in energy demand, the security risks for producing countries, the fight against climate change, the slow progress in energy efficiency and renewable energy quotas have become the major challenges in the field of energy europe.
on 15 july 2015, the european commission published a series of documents on the european internal market, with three policy objectives for the future electricity market: to create an eu-wide electricity market, to develop a european approach to the security of energy supply and to strengthen regional cooperation in the energy sector.
i agree with the rapporteur that better integration and coordination of energy markets offers many opportunities to achieve the common european objectives of secure, sustainable and affordable energy supply.
i would stress the importance of this approach at eu level, as acceptable energy prices and security of supply are essential for the standard of living of households as well as for job security in companies.
‒ today, half of the final energy demand in the european union is intended to meet the needs of europe's largest energy sector: heating and cooling.
only 18% of the energy used in this sector comes from renewable energy sources, the rest being supplied by fossil fuels.
the vast majority of energy in this sector, more precisely 80%, is used in buildings, making it important to increase energy efficiency in household consumption, reuse of waste energy, high-performance thermal insulation and the use of renewable energy.
the diversity of energy needs in the member states underpins the idea of technological neutrality, ensuring flexibility in the choice of the appropriate solutions for each user.
this report also stresses the importance of securing funding for the modernisation of the sector and of promoting ways of achieving the best cost-effectiveness in the energy transition.
in view of the objectives set out in the paris agreement, the path to energy independence from fossil energy sources is long and the heating and cooling sector therefore needs sustained and appropriate action as this report underlines.
- i voted in favour of this report, because i believe that any change that benefits the environment is an added value for the eu.
it is therefore necessary to take into account new technologies and techniques that can result in higher energy efficiency, such as the thermal renovation of buildings or the use of solar panels for water heating or the generation of electricity, which is still rare.
in the mediterranean countries of europe, refrigeration is a growing concern due to the gradual warming of the climate.
we all understand that the greatest gains in energy efficiency can be made in the thermal renovation of buildings, which is the simplest way to ensure more efficient energy use and a considerable reduction in co2 emissions.
in fact, 50% of final energy demand in the eu is for heating and cooling, with fossil fuel generation accounting for 75% of this figure.
the report highlights the importance of implementing the plan to improve the energy efficiency of buildings, in particular by the thermal renovation of existing buildings and the construction of more efficient small cogeneration plants for heat and electricity to replace obsolete generating plants.
i also think it is important to focus on cooling, because of global warming, a problem felt mainly in southern europe, and i agree with the emphasis on the importance of appropriate architectural solutions, thermal insulation and the use of reversible heat pumps.
the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund should be used for this purpose.
in the mediterranean countries of europe, refrigeration is a growing concern due to the gradual warming of the climate.
about 40 percent of our energy consumption comes from an aging housing stock that accounts for 36 percent of our total carbon dioxide emissions.
i would particularly stress the call for the development at national level of specific and sustainable heating and cooling strategies, with particular attention to combined heat and power, cogeneration and district heating and cooling systems, always giving preference to renewable energy sources.
while we generally agree on the need to increase the efficiency of smes by promoting circular economy practices and thereby (and more generally by increasing the environmental sustainability of companies) promoting the creation of new jobs, we cannot agree on the overly prescriptive and taxing nature of many of the guidelines underlying the application of eu funds.
i am voting in favour of this report with a view to strengthening support for smes, stressing the importance of doubling the support for the period 2007-2013 to eur 140 billion, the existence of a future participatory platform and the creation of an ecosystem including universities, research centres, social and economic actors and public institutions.
it is necessary to enable smes to develop a green environment (re-manufacturing, repair, maintenance, recycling) thus contributing to solving environmental challenges, while promoting economic growth and job creation.
‒ the shared objective of investments under the esi funds is to support the implementation of the eu's europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the report includes several positive points, highlighting the inclusion of social organizations in the policy-making for the macro-region, the prospect of reducing carbon emissions, the promotion of renewable energy, climate change mitigation and adaptation, the protection of the coatings and biodiversity, the fight against the problems of desertification and economic depression and the sustainable promotion of tourism, among others.
‒ this report addresses a number of important issues such as concerns about carbon emissions, renewable energy, climate change, species and biodiversity protection, the potential risks of hydropower and sustainable tourism.
however, the report could go further with regard to renewable energy.
i support the importance of the commission's communication and action plan for the alpine region, which is a key step for the development of the region, in line with the europe 2020 strategy's objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and has a vital role in combating the depopulation of the region, in particular the exodus of the young population.
i agree with the rapporteur that the social dimension must be strengthened to ensure the development of a growth model capable of ensuring sustainable growth, social inclusion and social protection for all, especially in border areas, and that it is important to encourage the creation of social infrastructure and to promote social investment.
this report identifies the priorities put forward by the constituent parts of the region: improving the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion of the region, ensuring access and interconnection for all the region's inhabitants, and the sustainability of the alps.
it is therefore necessary to improve the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion of the alpine region, to ensure access and interconnection for all inhabitants of the alpine region (cross-border transport, intermodal links with the interior) and to ensure sustainability in the alps.
the priorities are to improve the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion of the alpine region, to ensure access and interconnection for all inhabitants of the region (cross-border transport, intermodal links with the hinterland), to ensure sustainability in the alps, to protect heritage and to promote sustainable use of natural and cultural resources (environment, transnational terrestrial habitats and biodiversity).
the diversification of tourism, the importance of improving connectivity in transport and energy networks, and the protection and improvement of biodiversity are some of the proposals put forward by my colleague and which lead me to vote in favour of this report.
the report includes several positive points, highlighting the inclusion of civil society in the definition of policies for the macro-region, carbon emissions, the promotion of renewable energies, climate change mitigation and adaptation, the protection of the coatings and biodiversity, the fight against the problems of desertification and economic depression, the sustainable promotion of tourism, etc.
the european union and its member states have agreed to continue to support the implementation of the unfccc and the unfccc sustainable development goals, including the implementation of the unfccc sustainable development goals, and to continue to support the implementation of the unfccc sustainable development goals.
the fund is therefore intended to complement existing eu aid to the regions concerned by more than eur 10 billion by 2020, in order to support inclusive and sustainable economic growth.
this report raises some issues concerning the eusf, calling for its transparency, accountability, ownership and political coherence, in particular in the definition and implementation of projects, as well as full respect for the principles of sustainable development.
building walls, as announced in calais, is not only a waste of resources, it is ineffective and goes against everything that the european union stands for.
thirdly, this agreement has a sustainable development chapter with clear commitments on labour rights and environmental rights.
with the accelerated loss of biodiversity that has been witnessed in recent decades, more rigorous and consequential action is needed.
this regional trade agreement currently covers only trade in goods, development cooperation and provisions on trade and sustainable development.
it does, however, leave the door open to negotiating new provisions on services, investment, intellectual property rights, public procurement and strengthened provisions on sustainable development.
the agreement contains provisions on cooperation, trade in goods, trade and sustainable development, customs and trade facilitation, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, dispute settlement, geographical indications and rules of origin.
‒ the economic partnership agreements, which establish trade and development partnerships between the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states, on the one hand, and the european union, on the other, aim to promote trade, regional integration and the progressive integration of the acp states into the world economy, as well as the sustainable development of these states.
the sadc-eu economic partnership agreement has the potential to trigger fundamental positive change, contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepen intra-regional trade and integration.
i agree with the rapporteur's position on the guarantees and flexibility mechanisms provided for in the agreement, particularly in the area of trade and sustainable development, which can help make the agreement mutually beneficial and development-friendly, ensuring policy coherence for development, provided that it is properly implemented and monitored.
this epa has the potential to trigger fundamental positive change, contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepen intra-regional trade and integration.
this agreement has the potential to trigger fundamental positive change, contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepen intra-regional trade and integration.
this regional agreement will cover trade in goods, development cooperation and certain trade-related matters relating to sustainable development.
however, it is essential to invest in ways of printing a logic of sustainable social, environmental and economic growth, which has the right follow-up and monitoring measures.
the agreement includes relatively flexible rules of origin and there is also a chapter devoted to sustainable development with commitments in the field of labour and environmental legislation.
in short, provided that the agreement is properly implemented and monitored, the guarantees and flexibility mechanisms provided for in the agreement should contribute to sustainable development.
the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, the risks and incidence of occupational diseases compared to other sectors in a hazardous work environment, the unclear distinction between working, resting and leisure time and the impact on health and safety of fatigue, partly resulting from insufficient rest, as well as the prevalence of informal and atypical employment relationships and pay arrangements, including profit-sharing schemes between crew, are issues taken into account.
‒ given the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, the risks and incidence of occupational diseases, the hazardous working environment and the impact on health and safety of fatigue resulting from insufficient rest, as well as the existence of informal and atypical employment relationships and pay arrangements, i believe that fisheries workers need special protection, taking into account the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels.
i am voting in favour of this recommendation, as i am in favour of creating a fair and equitable environment in the fisheries sector, including the fight against exploitation of fishermen, such as forced labour, trafficking and child labour.
‒ i voted in favour, considering it imperative that fisheries workers enjoy special protection, taking into account, inter alia, the special characteristics of work on board fishing vessels, the high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, the risks and incidence of occupational diseases compared to other sectors in a hazardous working environment, the unclear distinction between working, rest and leisure time and the impact on health and safety of fatigue resulting in part from insufficient rest, as well as the prevalence of informal and atypical employment relationships and wage arrangements, including profit-sharing systems amongst crew.
i agree with the rapporteur's reform proposals, which are bolder than those traditionally adopted, because only by implementing more ambitious solutions will tunisia be able to boost investment and promote its political, economic and social development, generating employment and improving the quality of its public services, with a view to achieving sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ member states, in cooperation with regional and local authorities, should effectively and rapidly tackle the serious problem of unemployment, facilitate and invest in the creation of quality and sustainable jobs, address the issue of accessibility for groups at risk, reduce the obstacles preventing companies from hiring people at different skill levels and sectors of the labour market, including by reducing red tape while respecting labour and social standards, promote young entrepreneurship and, in particular, foster the creation and growth of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in order to increase the employment rate of men and women.
‒ the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the commission should enable the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
the rapporteur stresses the importance of facilitating and investing in the creation of quality and sustainable jobs, promoting young entrepreneurship and pursuing and promoting policies that guarantee fair wages for all workers.
member states, in cooperation with regional and local authorities, should effectively and rapidly address the serious problem of unemployment, facilitate and invest in the creation of quality and sustainable jobs, address the issue of accessibility for groups at risk, reduce the obstacles to companies hiring people at different skill levels and sectors of the labour market, including by reducing red tape while respecting labour and social standards, promote young entrepreneurship and, in particular, foster the creation and growth of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in order to increase the employment rate of men and women.
i support the eu's accession to cites because it is a key step in ensuring that the eu can achieve the wider objectives of its environmental policies as well as the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild flora and fauna.
the eu's accession to cites is a key step towards ensuring that the eu can achieve the broader objectives of its environmental policies, as well as the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild flora and fauna, and promote the sustainable development policies of the united nations 2030 agenda.
wildlife trafficking is now a transnational organised crime that has major negative impacts on biodiversity and on the livelihoods of local populations, as it denies a legal income, creating insecurity and instability.
increasingly, illegally traded exotic species are being treated as pets in europe and the rest of the world, and the escape of these animals could lead to uncontrolled spread with consequences for the environment and for public health and safety.
‒ the european union's (eu) accession to cites was a key step in ensuring that the eu and its member states achieve the broader objectives of their environmental policies, improving the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild flora and fauna and promoting the sustainable development policies of the united nations 2030 agenda.
i hope that all these suggestions will be taken into account at cites cop 17 and that this will help to fight corruption and protect biodiversity.
the postal services directive provides member states with the flexibility to address local specificities and ensure the long-term sustainability of the provision of universal services, while responding to user needs and adapting to changes in the technical, economic and social context.
i agree with the overall characterisation, and i am sure that postal services must adapt to the current reality by promoting greater competition in this sector, taking into account the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy with regard to more sustainable growth and a more competitive and resource-efficient economy.
i believe that the eu should seek to overcome the difficulties of the heterogeneity of types of smes and of the different national circumstances of economic environment or legal framework.
country-specific factors such as the economic environment, structural factors such as the legal framework and cultural issues have a strong influence on financing needs and the availability of financing options.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures from the production of certain products is appropriate.
i support the need for a stable regulatory environment and better quality of regulation and enforcement as the right way to reduce burdens on smes, including wage costs.
the report stresses that in order to achieve a sound environment for business development and boost its job-creation potential, national and european policies must, as a priority, address issues related to skills (shortages, gaps, 'brain drain'), regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, as well as the problem of undeclared work and the de facto privileged position of multinational enterprises.
i am voting in favour of this report, on the understanding that smes must actively contribute to sustainable growth and the creation of quality jobs.
for the above reasons, and because i consider it essential to create new and sustainable jobs in all the member states of the union, i voted in favour of adopting this report.
the report under consideration, which i voted in favour of, stresses that in order to achieve a sound environment for business development and boost its job creation potential, national and european policies must address, as a matter of priority, issues relating to skills (brain drain), regulatory uncertainty, administrative burdens, undeclared work and the de facto privileged position of multinational enterprises.
the objective of the egf is to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and the promotion of sustainable employment by preparing the unemployed for a new job and providing them with support in this context.
i would remind you that the objective of the egf is to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to the promotion of sustainable employment by preparing the unemployed for a new job and providing them with support in this context.
the liberalization and deregulation of trade, which the so-called economic partnership agreements are an instrument for, serves the interests of the northern powers and economic groups, but not the needs of sustainable development of the southern countries and communities, quite the contrary.
if it had been included it would have ensured the environmental and social suitability of that wood.
in addition to being a serious environmental problem, it is an unfair competition with our producing regions which are making an effort to certify, such as the azores, the portuguese islands of which i am a native and which are in the middle of the atlantic.
(applause)
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the eu's climate action plan is implemented in a timely manner.
the fact that the agreement, as well as the nationally determined contributions (ndcs), are assumed to be legally binding for the 187 parties is good news for the global fight against the increase in greenhouse gas emissions and for the achievement of climate neutrality by the end of the century.
to this end, i stress the importance of global five-yearly stocktaking from 2023 onwards of progress on emissions and the obligation for all parties to submit a biennial greenhouse gas inventory.
‒ the paris agreement represents a milestone of enormous historical significance in the fight against climate change.
it is crucial for comprehensive and collective action at global level with the aim of transitioning to a climate resilient global economy.
this agreement shall enter into force on the 30th day after the date on which at least 55 parties to the convention, representing together at least about 55% of total greenhouse gas emissions, have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
so far, 62 countries responsible for 51.89% of global greenhouse gas emissions have deposited their instruments of ratification.
the eu accounts for about 12% of global emissions.
with eu ratification, the second criterion of 55% of emissions is met.
‒ despite the immense publicity, the paris agreement does not fully meet the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions.
no concrete limits have been agreed on ghg emissions and the package of measures already announced by the overwhelming majority of the 195 countries that have approved the text are insufficient to meet the proposed warming target.
the agreement maintains and legitimises a market-based approach to climate change, of which carbon trading is the main (but not the only) instrument.
an approach based on the commodification and financialization of nature and its resources, which has created tradable pollution rights and fixed their price at ridiculous levels.
the agreement abandons the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibility' between developing and industrialised countries, opting for a single system that could deepen inequalities between the countries that have contributed most to the accumulation of carbon in the atmosphere and developing countries.
‒ the paris agreement is a milestone in the fight against climate change and for multilateralism, and is an ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding agreement.
‒ the paris agreement, adopted in december 2015, is a global victory in the fight against climate change.
climate change is ongoing, and human action has been the main cause of the global warming recorded since the mid-20th century.
in this regard, the widespread and substantial impacts of climate change, already evident, on natural and human systems on all continents and oceans are of concern.
the paris agreement on climate change was a landmark achievement in the fight against climate change and the commitment to reduce global emissions to net zero emissions during the second half of the century is welcome.
i support the need for additional efforts to ensure that financial resources are mobilised to combat climate change in order to reach the target of usd 100 billion by 2020. i therefore support the recommendation.
‒ despite the immense publicity, the paris agreement does not fully meet the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions.
no concrete limits have been agreed on ghg emissions and the package of measures already announced by the overwhelming majority of the 195 countries that have approved the text are insufficient to meet the proposed warming target.
the agreement maintains and legitimises a market-based approach to climate change, of which carbon trading is the main (but not the only) instrument.
an approach based on the commodification and financialization of nature and its resources, which has created tradable pollution rights and fixed their price at ridiculous levels.
the agreement abandons the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibility' between developing and industrialised countries, opting for a single system that could deepen inequalities between the countries that have contributed most to the accumulation of carbon in the atmosphere and developing countries.
‒ the conclusion of the paris agreement is one of the most ambitious demonstrations of cooperation, understanding and commitment on climate, having been adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change in december 2015. the paris agreement is a historic achievement in the fight against climate change and, in my view, it is ambitious, balanced and fair.
among the features of the agreement, i would stress the encouragement of cooperation between its 187 parties, its binding nature, the express need for energy transition embodied in its rules, exemplified by the suggestion of phasing out fossil fuels.
in my view, the implementation of the paris agreement, under the guise of international cooperation and the binding nature of its rules, will make a fundamental contribution to the fight against climate change.
i am therefore pleased to see the agreement being concluded successfully, to hope that it will be respected by all parties and to be proud of the european union's leading role in environmental matters.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that it establishes a dynamic evaluation mechanism that allows for more ambitious objectives to be set over time in matters relating to financing for climate change mitigation and adaptation and loss and damage associated with the adverse effects of climate change.
this recommendation thus creates a better framework for transparency and accountability, including biennial submission by all parties of greenhouse gas inventories and information needed to monitor progress, an assessment by technical experts, a multilateral and facilitative review of parties' progress, and a mechanism to facilitate and promote compliance.
the paris agreement sets, for the first time, a global target to build capacity, increase climate resilience and reduce vulnerability to climate change.
‒ given the european union's leadership in the fight against climate change, it would be inconceivable for the paris agreement to enter into force without the european union as a signatory.
the ratification of the conclusion of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change will send a strong signal and highlight the leadership role of the eu and its member states and their continued efforts to combat climate change at international level.
it will also make a key contribution to global efforts to combat climate change.
‒ the paris agreement represents a historic milestone in the fight against climate change, being ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding.
it represents an irreversible turning point on the path towards a climate change resilient world economy through global action on the path to climate neutrality that is intended to be achieved in the second half of this century.
the eu has been a leader in the fight against climate change, given its role in this endeavour since the kyoto protocol.
the eu and its member states should therefore take the necessary steps to complete their national and european ratification processes by the end of 2016, in line with the ambitious target of reducing domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030, and to meet the 2020-2030 emission reduction commitment.
like the rapporteur, i agree that the decision to ratify this agreement will send a strong signal and highlight the eu and its member states' leading role in combating climate change at international level, and it is therefore important to complete the ratification process with the council and the respective member states as soon as possible.
‒ the paris agreement adopted under the united nations convention on climate change highlights the leading role of the european union and its 28 member states in combating climate change.
by committing to reduce its domestic greenhouse gas emissions by around 40% by 2030, the union is thus seeking to contribute to limiting the temperature increase to below 2 °c compared to the pre-industrial era.
for the first time, all countries have committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and preventing global temperature from rising by more than two degrees.
and he pushed the problem to 2030. and to give a social and solidarity touch, a fund has been created that is funded by rich countries responsible for global warming to compensate poor countries for the rising sea levels and climate instability.
i welcome this historic milestone which will allow the agreement to enter into force today, as it secures ratification by 55 parties to the partnership representing at least 55% of total emissions, following the ratifications by the us, china and india.
portugal had already made its contribution, being the fifth eu country to ratify the agreement at a parliamentary session held on 30 september 2016. i would stress that the paris agreement is a global partnership that is crucial for the environmental sustainability of the planet and for giving a new impetus to the global economy.
i agree with the importance of improving the employability of all dismissed workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working career, and it is vital that the training offered is adapted not only to the needs of dismissed workers but also to the real environment of companies.
i agree with the importance of improving the employability of all dismissed workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working career, and it is vital that the training offered is adapted not only to the needs of dismissed workers but also to the real environment of companies.
i support the neuser report as i consider it important that in relations after 2020 this multi-faceted dimension of the acp-eu partnership based on respect for the human rights acquis, good governance and democracy (included also in the economic partnership agreements) is emphasised and that a new agreement includes the sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda and from the institutional point of view a strong parliamentary dimension and the inclusion of regional infrastructures.
the cotonou agreement has as its main pillar the reduction and eradication of poverty, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the progressive integration of the acp states into the world economy.
this report identifies priority areas for future acp-eu cooperation action, of which i highlight, on the one hand, the need to give binding character to the common frameworks and regional agreements, and, on the other hand, the importance of placing the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals at the heart of the new agreement, and thus the continuation of the priority objective of poverty eradication.
‒ the european parliament, taking into account the partnership agreement between the african, caribbean and pacific states and the european community and its member states, calls for the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals to be placed at the heart of a new agreement, as well as the establishment of robust follow-up mechanisms, to ensure that the implementation of the agreement promotes and contributes to the sustainable development goals.
i therefore consider it of the utmost importance to establish a new framework that implements the 2030 agenda and meets the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
the report advocates a partnership agreement focused on sustainable development and the promotion of human rights, with robust follow-up mechanisms, including effective involvement of parliaments, local authorities and civil society.
finally, we need to provide the right environment, and this is about completing the economic and monetary union.
commissioner cañete, yes, he left the oil lobby to come to the climate and energy portfolio.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one.
this design, enshrined in sustainable development goal 2 (eradicating hunger by 2030), is urgent when we consider demographic changes such as the increase in the world population (which is expected to reach 8.5 billion people by 2030) and its displacement to urban centres (70% of people are expected to live in large cities by 2050).
i therefore believe that the eu must fight food waste, defend the 'right to breastfeed', promote sustainable productive agriculture at all levels (large and small producers), integrate the objective of eliminating malnutrition into internal policies (agriculture, energy or trade) and external policies (trade agreements or development aid) and define specific indicators for the implementation of the eu action plan in this area.
‒ the eu produces 88 million tonnes of food waste a year, while 842 million people worldwide, or 12% of the world's population, go hungry and all food systems need to be adapted to eliminate food loss or waste.
the sustainable development goals and their associated targets aim to eradicate hunger and malnutrition by 2030, including by ensuring opportunities to increase the productivity of smallholder farmers and by creating sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems capable of feeding a world population expected to reach 8,5 billion by 2030. i agree that the eu should deliver on its commitment to invest €3.5 billion to reduce growth delays by at least €7 million by 2025.
in writing.
‒ the sustainable development goals 2 aim to eradicate hunger and malnutrition by 2030, including by ensuring opportunities to increase the productivity of smallholder farmers and creating sustainable agriculture and food systems that are resilient to climate change.
i am in favour of reinvestment in local food production, focusing mainly on small food producers and agro-ecological practices, as i believe this is a key condition for the success of nutrition strategies.
this report reiterates the importance of truly coordinated and accelerated action by diverse actors at global, national and local levels to deliver on the 2030 agenda and achieve the sustainable development goals on the eradication of hunger.
the report also calls on the commission and the member states to coordinate their policies on trade, agriculture and energy, among other issues, with a view to achieving the objectives mentioned above.
i am in favour of sustainable agricultural production and the fight against food waste.
in this regard, reform and adaptation of food systems is urgently needed with a view to eliminating food loss or waste.
i cannot, however, agree with the attempt to find in agricultural activity all the negative environmental aspects in an absurd way.
‒ one of the sustainable development goals aims to eradicate hunger and malnutrition by 2030 by creating sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems capable of feeding a world population expected to reach 8.5 billion by 2030, while protecting biodiversity, the environment and the interests and well-being of smallholder farmers.
most of the waste occurs in north america and oceania, where about 300 kilograms of food per person is wasted.
the eu produces 88 million tonnes of food waste a year, while 842 million people worldwide, or 12% of the world's population, go hungry.
long-term financial investments in food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture must be mobilised immediately.
‒ ending hunger and combating malnutrition is a long-term commitment of the european union (eu), which aims to be a global leader in promoting and implementing the sustainable development goals (sdgs) of the 2030 agenda.
in 2010, the eu adopted a policy framework on food security, which identified sustainable food and agriculture as key priorities, and also aimed to provide support to developing countries facing major food security challenges.
‒ the question and resolution follow a number of objectives set and commitments made at international level, and therefore fall within a context in which work is needed to achieve the second sustainable development goal zero hunger and sustainable agriculture by 2030. the resolution, while containing positive aspects, omits key issues such as the issue of food sovereignty and respect for national decisions in terms of development policies, which contrasts with the endorsement of the role of the private sector in improving food security and strengthening specific interventions in the field of nutrition.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's global objectives and commitments on nutrition and food security in the world, as i agree with the urgency of achieving the sustainable development goals and their associated targets, such as the eradication of hunger and malnutrition by 2030. i would stress the call in this resolution to the european institutions and the international community to mobilise immediate long-term financial investment in food and nutrition security.
european industry must therefore be seen as a strategic asset for the eu's competitiveness and sustainability.
only a strong and resilient industry and a forward-looking policy will enable the eu to meet the different challenges ahead, such as reindustrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality jobs.
the commission shall develop with the member states a union strategy for a coherent and comprehensive industrial policy for the reindustrialisation of europe, based, inter alia, on digitalisation, sustainability, energy efficiency and adequate resources.
‒ the caterpillar and alstom cases demonstrate that european industry must be seen as a strategic asset for the eu's competitiveness and sustainability.
only a strong and resilient industry and a future-oriented industrial policy will enable the eu to meet the different challenges ahead, such as reindustrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality jobs.
‒ european industry must be oriented so that it can be considered as a strategic asset for the eu's competitiveness and sustainability.
the new challenges in the eu, such as reindustrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality jobs, can only be successfully addressed with a strong and resilient industry and a future-oriented industrial policy.
i am in favour of creating a genuine industrial policy for the union, which also protects eu workers (suitable social protection, working conditions and wages that allow them to live with dignity, among others), and which can achieve a sustainable economy and inclusive growth.
i agree with the rapporteur's position on the need to direct investment towards creativity, skills, innovation and sustainable technologies and to promote the modernisation of europe's industrial base through a value chain policy that includes the core industries and their regional and local actors.
the european social market economy should aim at sustainability and inclusive growth objectives, given the importance of the secondary sector.
the commission should develop, with the member states, a strategy for a coherent and comprehensive industrial policy, favouring high quality, innovative and energy-efficient production, applying sustainable production processes, thus enabling the union to survive in an increasingly competitive world context.
european industry must be seen as a strategic asset for the eu's competitiveness and sustainability.
only a strong and resilient industry and a future-oriented industrial policy will enable the eu to meet the different challenges ahead, such as reindustrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality jobs.
the rail industry is a key sector of european industrialisation, lacking the robustness, technology and innovation to adapt to modern times and simultaneously meet the european union's climate and energy targets.
the resolution therefore calls not only for measures to support the workers made redundant by these two companies but also for the need to implement a genuine long-term, resilient and future-oriented strategic policy for european reindustrialisation, capable of overcoming the challenges of competition, creating quality jobs and fostering competitiveness in a sustainable way, as enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy.
in the light of the recent cases of caterpillar (in belgium) and alstom (in france), i voted in favour of the resolution on the need for a reindustrialisation policy, because i believe that a new investment strategy in europe based on sustainable growth and the fight against social dumping is needed.
i would remind you that europe is a social market economy which aims to achieve a sustainable economy and inclusive growth.
and that is precisely the will we will have to demonstrate next month in marrakesh at cop 22. i believe that the global paris agreement represents a more equitable international framework for promoting the fight against climate change.
the definition of a stable and ambitious legal framework is now essential to mobilise civil society and the private sector to invest in innovative technologies that will enable us to build a more sustainable society.
there will now be an opportunity for growth and job creation in the green and blue economy that we cannot afford to waste.
in european climate policy there are industrial sectors, some of which are subject to carbon leakage, which could be harmed if we focus all our efforts on reducing emissions on them.
the commissioner, we cannot afford to forget, in this effort which must be made by all, the transport sector, the second most important sector in terms of emissions and the one whose emissions continue to grow freely.
an agreement that will be implemented late, only after 2020, that starts from a very high co2 emission reference level and that is anticipated to be purely voluntary in nature, without imposing an effective reduction in emissions in the near future, is certainly not the agreement i would like.
the fragility of this agreement is manifold, and the indisputable need for a global and binding instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions does not make it worth everything.
‒ the european union's leadership in the fight against climate change gives dignity to the union and its member states.
the ratification of the paris agreement, which will allow its early entry into force, and the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 are generational contributions of which we should be proud.
i believe that the eu must maintain its leading role at cop22 in marrakesh, accompanying the moroccan presidency in making renewable energy a priority.
i share the view that conditions must be created for industrial adaptations to environmental objectives to promote employment, competitiveness and economic growth.
in this respect, it is essential to coordinate environmental policy with energy policy, to promote scientific research and technological innovation and to integrate the objectives in external action, with environmental diplomacy, especially in relation to development support.
‒ the eu and its member states have presented their planned nationally determined contributions which commit to the binding target of at least a 40% domestic reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. efforts to mitigate global warming should not be seen as an obstacle to the fight for economic growth, but should rather be seen as a driving force for the creation of new sustainable jobs and the achievement of sustainable economic growth.
the eu must drastically reduce its greenhouse gas emissions beyond current commitments in order to avoid as far as possible large-scale negative emissions, as technologies have not yet been proven to be successful, socially acceptable, cost-effective and safe.
‒ this resolution addresses the preparation of the 22nd un conference of the parties on climate change, to be held later this year in marrakech.
in addition to the lack of agreed limits on ghg emissions, the agreement maintains and legitimises a market approach to climate change, of which carbon trading is the main (but not the only) instrument.
the agreement abandoned the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibility' between developing and industrialized countries, opting for a single system that could deepen inequalities between the countries that contributed most to the accumulation of carbon in the atmosphere and developing countries.
‒ climate change is ongoing and human action has been the main cause of the global warming recorded since the mid-20th century.
in this regard, the widespread and substantial impacts of climate change, already evident, on natural and human systems on all continents and oceans are of concern.
the paris agreement on climate change was a landmark achievement in the fight against climate change and the commitment to reduce global emissions to net zero emissions during the second half of the century is welcome.
i support the need for additional efforts to ensure that financial resources are mobilised to combat climate change in order to reach the target of usd 100 billion by 2020.
‒ this resolution addresses the preparation of the 22nd un conference of the parties on climate change, to be held later this year in marrakech.
in addition to the lack of agreed limits on ghg emissions, the agreement maintains and legitimises a market approach to climate change, of which carbon trading is the main (but not the only) instrument.
the agreement abandoned the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibility' between developing and industrialized countries, opting for a single system that could deepen inequalities between the countries that contributed most to the accumulation of carbon in the atmosphere and developing countries.
‒ recalling that the paris agreement will enter into force on the 30th day after the date on which at least 55 parties to the convention and around 55% of the world's total greenhouse gas emissions have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession at the un, parliament referred to several issues such as climate action based on a sound scientific basis; the urgency of ratifying and implementing the paris agreement; the conference of the parties (cop) 22 in marrakesh; the pre-2020 ambition and the kyoto protocol; the comprehensive effort of all sectors; the reduction of non-greenhouse gas emissions, industry and competitiveness; energy policy; research, innovation and digital technologies; the role of non-state actors; climate change through adaptation; and others.
‒ the paris agreement on climate change is a historic achievement of unparalleled importance in the fight against climate change and in favour of multilateralism.
this is an ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding agreement and its adoption marks a decisive turning point towards a more comprehensive and collective global action to combat climate change.
despite the positive commitment by all countries to limiting average global warming, this alone does not guarantee that significant negative impacts on climate can be avoided and it is therefore necessary to understand the concrete policy implications of limiting global warming to 1.5 °c.
the eu's relentless commitment to 'climate diplomacy' is essential to improve the perception of the importance of this fight, especially among global public opinion and in third countries where such perception is low or non-existent.
the rich countries will continue to beat their breasts, hoping that this alone will reduce emissions and meet the pious promises and agreements that have been made.
for us communists, the resolution of this environmental emergency is inseparable from the struggle to overcome capitalism and the emergence of a new society and a new model of social production in which the state has control of the fundamental levers of the economy.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2016 united nations climate change conference in marrakech, morocco, for advocating the need to tackle the global challenge of climate change through international cooperation.
at the same time i support the need for scientific research with solid results on the safety of materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs, for the benefit of consumers, the environment and manufacturers.
‒ the report shows that environment, transport, internal market and services are the areas where most infringement cases remained pending in 2014 but the number of formal infringement cases has decreased over the last five years.
the report thus shows that the environment, transport, the internal market and services are the areas where most infringement cases remained pending in 2014. the annual report also points out that the number of formal infringement proceedings has decreased over the past five years.
‒ the annual report shows that the environment, transport, the internal market and services are the areas where most infringement proceedings remain pending in 2014. given that the european parliament still has relatively limited access to information on the eu pilot procedure dialogue with member states and on ongoing proceedings, it is difficult to assess to what extent the reduction of formal infringement proceedings better reflects in practice the compliance of member states with eu law than solutions agreed between the commission and the member states.
‒ this report shows that the environment, transport, the internal market and services are the areas where most infringement cases remained pending in 2014. it also stresses that the number of formal infringement proceedings has decreased over the past five years.
the report finds that sectors such as the environment, transport, the internal market and services are those with the highest number of infringement cases pending, although the volume of cases has decreased over the past five years.
the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law on the protection of human health and the environment when deliberate releases of genetically modified organisms into the environment are made for any purpose other than placing on the market.
it is necessary and urgent to amend the current legislative framework in order to respect the right of each member state not to want gmos on its territory for food and/or cultivation, for reasons of food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
it is necessary and urgent to amend the current legislative framework in order to respect the right of each member state not to want gmos on its territory for food and/or cultivation, for reasons of food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law on the protection of human health and the environment when deliberate releases of genetically modified organisms into the environment are made for any purpose other than placing on the market.
the possible evolution of resistance to cry1f in target insect pests has been identified by the efsa gmo panel as a concern associated with the cultivation of maize 1507, as the acquisition of resistance may lead to altered pest control practices that may cause adverse environmental effects.
the possible evolution of resistance to cry1f in target insect pests has been identified by the efsa gmo panel as a concern associated with the cultivation of maize 1507, as the acquisition of resistance may lead to altered pest control practices that may cause adverse environmental effects.
similarly, the development of a possible resistance to cry1f protein by the targeted lepidopterans is considered by the gmo panel of efsa as a concern associated with the cultivation of maize 1507, as the evolution of resistance may lead to a change in pest control practices which may in turn have adverse effects on the environment.
‒ the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and is not in accordance with union law, in so far as it is not compatible with the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is to provide the basis for ensuring, as regards genetically modified food and feed, a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and animal welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
there is a lack of post-market environmental monitoring as noted by the european food safety authority (efsa) in the 2014 post-market environmental monitoring (pmem) report, which refers to non-compliance with e.g.
in addition, the easa has arbitrarily excluded cross-pollination of maize from the scope of its scientific opinions, thus failing to address all the potential risks to biodiversity arising from the cultivation of this gmo.
there is a lack of post-market environmental monitoring as noted by the european food safety authority (efsa) in the 2014 post-market environmental monitoring (pmem) report, which refers to non-compliance with e.g.
in addition, the easa has arbitrarily excluded cross-pollination of maize from the scope of its scientific opinions, thus failing to address all the potential risks to biodiversity arising from the cultivation of this gmo.
‒ the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and is not in accordance with union law, in so far as it is not compatible with the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is to provide the basis for ensuring, as regards genetically modified food and feed, a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and animal welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
it is necessary and urgent to amend the current legislative framework in order to respect the right of each member state not to want gmos on its territory for food and/or cultivation, for reasons of food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
it is necessary and urgent to amend the current legislative framework in order to respect the right of each member state not to want gmos on its territory for food and/or cultivation, for reasons of food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
the draft commission implementing decision is considered not to be in accordance with union law, insofar as it is not compatible with the purpose of the regulation concerned, and the commission is requested to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit, on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a new legislative proposal amending the regulation to take into account frequently expressed concerns at national level that do not concern only issues related to the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
‒ the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 and is not in accordance with union law, in so far as it is not compatible with the purpose of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is to provide the basis for ensuring, as regards genetically modified food and feed, a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and animal welfare, the environment and consumer interests, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
it is necessary and urgent to amend the current legislative framework in order to respect the right of each member state not to want gmos on its territory for food and/or cultivation, for reasons of food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
it is necessary and urgent to amend the current legislative framework in order to respect the right of each member state not to want gmos on its territory for food and/or cultivation, for reasons of food sovereignty, the environment, biodiversity and public health.
however, iran still needs to commit and invest in complying with the recommendations of the international financial action task force to create a transparent and accountable economic environment.
the big companies and multinationals exploit, directly or indirectly, in the name of profit and greedily, the natural resources of the peoples of third countries, without any qualms about committing the most heinous environmental crimes against the populations or inhumanely exploiting workers.
mr president, mr commissioner, liquefied natural gas is a very important component in ensuring energy diversification and security and in supporting a sustainable transition to a model based on renewable and clean energy.
i was a rapporteur in the envi committee and the opinion stresses the optimisation of existing networks, the importance of supporting the energy transition and, in particular, decarbonising heavy transport and maritime transport.
mr president, liquefied natural gas can play an important role in mitigating the effects of greenhouse gases and in pursuing the decarbonisation efforts envisaged in the agreement reached at cop 21, where, as we know, maritime transport was left out of the equation.
madam president, we cannot have a europe which spends all its energy on monitoring a few tenths of the budget deficit but turns a blind eye to very serious violations of the rule of law and fundamental rights which call into question the essential european values.
‒ the main objective of the european union's transport policy is to create an internal market by promoting common policies that encourage a high level of competitiveness and the harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of economic activities.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
as this is a matter of safeguarding the safety of all staff (and visitors) of the european institutions and ensuring the proper functioning and prevailing environment of the institutions, i voted in favour of this report.
i would remind you that opportunities in the field of energy must take environmental concerns into account.
it also has enormous potential for the exploitation of solar energy, interests which move the eu.
it also has enormous potential for the exploitation of solar energy, interests which move the eu.
an enlargement of eu-iran relations to the mutual benefit of both parties, based on a realistic assessment of common interests and differences, and with a view to encouraging a gradual expansion of cooperation in a climate of confidence building, above all to the benefit of the peoples of iran and the eu.
this resolution, which i support and vote in favour of, is the result of the work that parliament has been doing in this area since 2011. new problems are being identified, for example in the area of misuse of funds, but also new avenues, particularly in the area of environmental crime.
‒ this is a report on the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering, covering sectors such as counterfeiting, drug trafficking, gambling and addiction to sports results, tax havens, environmental crimes, cybercrime, organised crime and terrorism, and trafficking in human beings and migrants.
the report provides recommendations on measures and initiatives to be taken in the areas of transparency, environmental aspects of corruption, better communication between judicial authorities, the need to address the exploitation of migrant labour, enhanced protection of witnesses and whistleblowers, as well as other relevant issues in this context.
the 2030 agenda for sustainable development recognises the need to combat corruption in all its forms and calls on member states to eliminate illicit financial flows, bribery and corruption, and to establish effective, accountable and transparent institutions.
‒ the report is based on fair values such as the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering, covering sectors such as counterfeiting, drug trafficking, gambling and addiction to sports results, tax havens, environmental crimes, cybercrime, organised crime and terrorism, and organised crime and trafficking in human beings and migrants.
expresses its wish to focus its attention on specific areas requiring priority action in the current context: - ensuring the proper transposition of the existing provisions, monitoring their application and evaluating their effectiveness; - priorities and operational framework for the fight against organised crime and corruption; - a more robust legislative framework; - more effective police and judicial cooperation at european level; - to seize the assets of criminal organisations and to encourage their reuse for social purposes; - preventing the infiltration of organised crime and corruption into the legal economy; - the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office; - specific areas of intervention (counterfeiting, drug trafficking, tax havens, crimes against the environment, cybercrime, organised crime and terrorism).
‒ this is a report on the fight against fraud, corruption and money laundering, covering sectors such as counterfeiting, drug trafficking, gambling and addiction to sports results, tax havens, environmental crimes, cybercrime, organised crime and terrorism, and organised crime and trafficking in human beings and migrants.
‒ migration is a global and multidimensional phenomenon, which has its origins in a variety of causes, such as economic conditions, social and political conditions, working conditions, situations of violence, the security situation, the gradual degradation of the environment and the worsening of natural disasters.
‒ migration is a global and multidimensional phenomenon, which has its origins in a number of causes, such as economic conditions (including changes in the distribution of wealth and regional and global economic integration), social and political conditions, working conditions, situations of violence, the security situation, the gradual degradation of the environment and the worsening of natural disasters.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i also agree with the rapporteur that this response must be based on the principles of poverty eradication, sustainable development, respect for the rights and dignity of migrants and close cooperation between the countries of origin, transit and destination of migration.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the big companies and multinationals exploit, directly or indirectly, in the name of profit and greedily, the natural resources of the peoples of third countries, without any qualms about committing the most heinous environmental crimes against the population or inhumanely exploiting workers.
the business community must not only respect human rights but also have an important role in providing incentives to promote them, as well as democracy, environmental standards and social responsibility.
companies should adopt, support and implement a set of core values in human rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption, committing to these values and integrating them into their business activities on a voluntary basis.
the report highlights the importance of finding cost-effective and environmentally sustainable energy supply options to increase long-term security of supply in the iberian peninsula and elsewhere in europe, which are not sufficiently connected or integrated into the internal energy market and deserve the eu's full support in the name of the principle of solidarity.
‒ this report on the eu lng and gas storage strategy is perfectly in line with the so-called single energy market and the objectives that inspire it.
it advocates strengthening the role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
it explains the eu's geostrategic interests in terms of dominance of supply routes and energy production points.
the creation of the single energy market, i.e.
without prejudice to the recognition of the role of lng in a future energy mix and to any guidelines which may be pursued at national level in this respect, which is why we voted in favour of the amendments concerning the role of portugal (and particularly its autonomous regions, in the case of the azores), we voted against the report.
‒ this report aims to outline an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas (lng) and gas storage, which is mainly structured in the energy security package presented on 16 february 2016 by the commission.
this package consists of proposals to prepare the eu for possible disruptions in energy supply, with the aim of making the eu an attractive market for gas suppliers.
this report does not fully address important issues such as access to energy, the affordability of energy, energy as a social public good, the need to combat energy poverty.
‒ gas can play an important role in the eu energy system in the coming decades in the industrial production sector as a source of heating in buildings and in support of renewable energy as the eu meets its greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and renewable energy targets and makes the transition to a low-carbon economy, in which the role of gas will gradually decrease in favour of clean energy.
the eu lng and gas storage strategy is one element of the energy union which aims to translate into concrete terms the eu's ambition to move rapidly towards a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, and which also aims to end dependence on external gas suppliers.
it should be noted that one of the objectives of the energy union is to make the eu the world leader in renewable energy.
‒ this report is on the eu's liquefied natural gas and gas storage strategy and reflects the most negative aspects of the union's energy market.
in other words, it favours the domination of private monopolies, always with generous public support, and does not have as its fundamental matrix the public control of these key sectors as a way of ensuring a sustainable management of resources and equitable access to this fundamental good.
‒ this report on the european union strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage is in line with the european commission's communication of february 2016 under the winter energy package.
the rapporteur believes that in order to ensure the achievement of the objective of a resilient energy union, a single energy market should integrate liquefied natural gas and gas storage.
i believe that the most effective way of ensuring energy security is through better coordination of national energy policies, the establishment of a genuine energy union with a genuine single energy market and a common energy policy, and cooperation between member states in this area, in accordance with the principles of solidarity and trust.
‒ i voted in favour of the view that liquefied natural gas (lng) offers an opportunity for europe both in terms of increasing competitiveness by exerting downward pressure on natural gas prices and increasing security of supply, and also as a flexible reserve in relation to renewable energies in the context of electricity production.
current developments in international lng markets demonstrate that excess supply has led to a reduction in prices, providing an opportunity to offer energy at lower costs to eu consumers through cheaper gas supplies.
the most effective way to ensure energy security is through better coordination of national energy policies and the establishment of a genuine energy union with a genuine single energy market and a common energy policy, as well as cooperation between member states in this area, in accordance with the principles of solidarity and trust.
in terms of a european strategy in this area, the importance of adopting cost-effective and environmentally sustainable alternatives to current energy supply is highlighted.
it is also important to stress that these solutions will ensure long-term supply throughout the european continent and in particular on the iberian peninsula, and thus reduce the current energy isolation.
‒ this report is on the eu's liquefied natural gas and gas storage strategy and reflects the most negative aspects of the union's energy market.
in other words, it favours the domination of private monopolies, always with generous public support, and does not have as its fundamental matrix the public control of these key sectors as a way of ensuring a sustainable management of resources and equitable access to this fundamental good.
‒ i voted in favour of the gyürk report, for which i tabled several proposals approved as rapporteur for the eu lng and gas storage strategy in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to ensure energy diversification and security and support a sustainable transition to an energy model based on renewable and clean energy.
i would also like to stress the amendments tabled by the socialist group to bring the report into line with the targets set in paris and the progressive phasing out of natural gas to achieve these targets, without prejudice to the continued focus on biogas, which is expected to play a decisive role in the future energy mix of the eu.
‒ eu fisheries controls aim at biological sustainability by fighting illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing.
the report highlights a number of issues that can contribute to non-discriminatory treatment in the sector, the effectiveness of controls and the sustainability of marine resources.
‒ this report aims to further harmonise fisheries controls in europe, as the rules are not applied uniformly across fisheries or even across member states, and highlights a number of issues that can contribute to more effective and non-discriminatory treatment in the sector, to the effectiveness of controls and to the sustainability of marine resources.
‒ ensuring effective control of fishing activities is very important in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and maintain a level playing field between eu fleets.
‒ eu fisheries controls aim at biological sustainability by fighting illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing.
this report is a prelude to the next revision of the fisheries control regulation and stresses the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities in order to ensure sustainable exploitation of marine resources, equal treatment of the different members' fleets and effective implementation of the fisheries control regulation.
the rapporteur stresses the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of marine resources, while maintaining a level playing field between fleets.
‒ eu fisheries controls aim at biological sustainability by fighting illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing.
it is therefore important to strengthen the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure to, from and within the central and eastern parts of the eu, taking into account the needs of the economy and the principles of sustainable development.
this inefficiency of the links between the different modes of transport and the lack of network structures between basic and general transport means that there is not enough interoperability between the different modes of transport, when such interoperability would not only reduce the prices of passenger and freight transport and improve the flexibility of transport services, but would also help to reduce environmental and social concerns.
to protect europeans’ interests and quality of life, as well as the security, fairness and well—being of our societies; to empower citizens and give them a perspective for a sustainable future for themselves and their families and to defend people’s rights – we already had a debate about that this morning.
in the coming year, the commission will put a particular emphasis on implementation and enforcement work, making sure that eu rules are properly applied and enforced across all policy areas, including the internal market and the environment.
we need to have a much more comprehensive investment strategy led by europe 2020 and sustainable development goals, and this should be translated into industrial and trade policy to be updated in europe.
and we cannot waste a single euro, nor can we waste any more time.
we cannot waste a single euro and for that we need flexibility in the financial framework, and for that we need the revision of the multiannual financial framework.
the whole process must be geared to job creation and the prosperity of the population, guided by the necessary budgetary responsibility to ensure the sustainability of social europe, without putting the younger generations at risk in a process of good economic governance geared to growth, which is incompatible with the application of sanctions to portugal and spain that call into question their investment capacity.
investment in europe is falling short of what is needed for sustainable and inclusive growth.
on the contrary, it would compromise a sustainable response to the pest problem in the long term.
as regards the import of plant material from third countries, strict phytosanitary controls are entirely justified to eliminate the risk of future outbreaks of plant diseases with potentially devastating agronomic and ecological consequences.
and we have to make this very clear, because there has never been a trade agreement that has had such good, such bold, such bold standards of social and environmental protection as ceta.
i have not seen anyone here arise against the vietnam agreement, and in vietnam there are problems with children and women and working hours, there are problems with the environment, and nobody has any problems, but as for canada, where we have reached an agreement which is at the moment a model for all the major trading partners in the world, we are here to undo that agreement.
if approved, this agreement would represent an instrument to lower social, labour, environmental and public health rights, to put the interests of multinationals above the interests of the people and the constitutions and sovereignty of the states, and another step in the escalation of the liberalization of world trade with serious consequences for countries like portugal.
i support the replenishment of all the amounts cut in the connecting europe facility (investments to improve europe's transport, energy and digital technology networks) and in horizon 2020 (the eu's research and innovation programme), totalling eur 1 240 million in commitments.
the outermost regions are the european union's largest repository of biodiversity and this new project will provide €1 million to engage policy-makers, scientists and society at large in developing methodologies to map and assess the state of ecosystems and their services.
the main objective is to lay the foundations for the best strategy for the conservation of the biodiversity of the outermost regions through better knowledge of them.
i support the replenishment of all the amounts cut in the connecting europe facility (investments to improve europe's transport, energy and digital technology networks) and in horizon 2020 (the eu's research and innovation programme), totalling eur 1 240 million in commitments.
i support the increase in appropriations for migration, security and sustainable growth, and i strongly support the funding of programmes such as the youth employment initiative, in which the previously entered figures remain.
the values attributed to cohesion policy seem appropriate to me as economic, social and territorial cohesion is key to reducing disparities between the different regions of the eu, as it is important for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
recalls that about one third of the annual budget of the union is allocated to economic, social and territorial cohesion and that cohesion policy is the union's main investment policy and the main instrument for reducing disparities between all eu regions, playing an important role in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth;
‒ as jean-claude juncker recently stated in his state of the union address, the eu's 2017 draft general budget should be a living proof of financial solidarity, focusing on its key priorities - growth, jobs, security and migration - while also ensuring greater flexibility and less red tape.
the mid-term review should therefore be reflected in this community budget, so as not to waste time or money.
the council should therefore assume its responsibilities by ensuring a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable budget for the remaining years.
‒ the revision of the multiannual financial framework is a unique opportunity to respond to the budgetary difficulties currently challenging the credibility of the european union, and the council must assume its responsibilities in order to align words and deeds and ensure a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable eu budget for the remaining years of the current perspective.
the new crises and priorities that have emerged over the past years, namely the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security issues, the crisis in agriculture, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the persistence of high levels of unemployment, especially among young people, as well as climate change, require a permanent rethinking of the mff.
the council is therefore called upon to assume its responsibilities in order to align words and deeds and ensure a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable eu budget for the remaining years of the current perspective.
‒ the last few years have unfortunately seen an increase in the number of crises and emergencies facing the eu, including the management of the migration crisis, external emergencies, internal security, the fight against unemployment, the sustainability of agriculture and the financing of the european fund for strategic investments.
this motion for a resolution calls for a review of the current framework, ensuring a budget that is realistic, credible, coherent, sustainable and that respects the just aspirations of the european citizens.
‒ 1,550 workers were laid off from 3 different companies in estonia, two from shale gas production, including the main energy company in the baltic states, and one from chemical production.
i agree with the importance of improving the employability of all dismissed workers through adapted training and the recognition of qualifications and skills acquired throughout their working career, and i consider it vital that the training offered is adapted not only to the needs of dismissed workers but also to the real environment of companies.
in addition, the proposed package of measures is in line with the needs identified in the estonian regional development strategy 2014-2020 as well as in the ida-virumaa action plan for 2015-2020. the estonian authorities further state that the coordinated package of measures is compatible with the shift towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy and has a high potential to facilitate it.
‒ plant health is an essential factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry.
there was also another group that was unintentionally affected, seed-supply organisations that take action to conserve rare varieties and species and ensure genetic biodiversity.
‒ plant health is an essential factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry.
plant health is also important for the protection of biodiversity and ecosystem services.
on the contrary, it would compromise a sustainable response to the pest problem in the long term.
as regards the import of plant material from third countries, strict phytosanitary controls are entirely justified, which eliminate the risk of future outbreaks of plant diseases with potentially devastating agronomic and ecological consequences.
‒ plant health is an essential factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry, enabling profitable crops and acting as a guarantee for job preservation, innovation, food security and biodiversity protection.
the aim of this revision is to fill the gaps identified and to establish a robust, transparent and sustainable regulatory framework, adapted to its objectives, which is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
on the contrary, it would compromise a sustainable response to the pest problem in the long term.
as regards the import of plant material from third countries, strict phytosanitary controls are entirely justified, which eliminate the risk of future outbreaks of plant diseases with potentially devastating agronomic and ecological consequences.
the eu's projected growth rate is 1.8%, unemployment remains high (10.5 million long-term unemployed) and political situations (brexit, russia or refugees) have important implications for the investment climate.
the lack of sustainable investment and shortcomings in the completion of the single market are preventing the eu from fully realising its growth potential.
i think it is important for the eu to call on the member states to take urgent measures to ensure decent work and wages that allow people to live in dignity, access to a minimum income and adequate social protection and quality public services, and to advocate the development and creation of a truly sustainable social security system.
support the importance attached by the commission in the 2016 country-specific recommendations to the three main priorities for strengthening economic growth: supporting investment for innovation, growth and job creation, pursuing socially sustainable and balanced structural reforms and promoting responsible public finances.
‒ in my opinion as rapporteur for the committee on regional development on this resolution (which i voted in favour of), in addition to the important positions on regional policy voted (and enriched by amendments by my peers) at commission headquarters, i thought it important to underline the decisions of the european commission (ec) and the council to cancel the fines on portugal and spain following the huge reform and budgetary consolidation efforts made in recent years in a difficult economic environment and taking into account the commitment of the two states to comply with the rules of the stability and growth pact.
i regret that the lack of sustainable investment and the shortcomings in the completion of the single market are preventing the eu from fully realising its growth potential.
the food industry should give priority to alternative solutions that respect health and environmental standards, such as the use of improved oils, new fat modification processes or the combination of ingredients to replace agt (fibres, pulp, starches, protein blends, etc.).
the consumption of agt should be as low as possible in the context of a nutritionally adequate diet (less than 1% of the daily energy intake).
the proposal also proposes that the food industry should adopt alternatives to these types of fatty acids which respect environmental and health standards and thus also reduce inequality between consumers, since they tend to be used in cheaper foods.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of establishing and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications.
‒ i voted in favour, considering the objective of the artemis joint undertaking to be important, namely to establish and implement a research programme for the development of key technologies in the field of embedded information systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to allow the emergence of new markets and social applications.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 with the objective of establishing and implementing a 'research programme' for the development of key technologies in the field of information systems, in order to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and to enable the emergence of new markets and social applications.
in this regard, i support the marinescu report, which authorises the director of the european joint undertaking for itre and the development of fusion energy to be discharged from the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
iter is an international collaborative project aimed at developing fusion energy.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
i therefore vote in favour of the discharge to be given to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ on the basis of the information contained in this report, i am in favour of giving the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy a discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. i would argue that the comments/suggestions made should be taken into account in the future.
‒ the iter project is an international collaborative project aimed at developing fusion energy.
according to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2014, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
this report authorises the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy to be granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. i support this report.
‒ grants the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
‒ the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy (the joint undertaking) was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years and started its autonomous operation in 2008. the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 are prepared in accordance with the rules on financial transparency laid down in the financial regulation.
the commission has also concluded that the project is in line with the objectives of the union's policy on the environment, and that the union's policy on the environment is in line with the objectives of the union's policy on the environment.
‒ the iter project is an international collaborative project aimed at developing fusion energy.
according to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the joint undertaking as at 31 december 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ended 31 december 2014, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
- i voted in favour of the marinescu report for agreeing to the discharge for iter and the development of fusion energy.
the iter joint undertaking in particular seeks to cover the areas of air traffic control, low-carbon energy, nanotechnology, aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
i support the rapporteur's call for the eeas, the member states and the international community to give their practical and diplomatic support to a sustainable and inclusive post-conflict structure for this region.
this climate of violence and atrocious executions, which the islamic state continues to perpetrate systematically and violently, must be the object of our deepest repudiation and strongest condemnation, since the crimes are committed against children, women and the elderly, who are usually used as human shields against the ongoing military operations.
it is also a violent blow to freedom of expression - and particularly to freedom of the press - as the turkish police have arrested more than 100 journalists and writers since the coup, without any basis or formal charge of any crime, without access to a defence, kept in totally inhumane conditions, in a climate of constant threat, terror and torture.
‒ the global security situation and the deterioration of the security environment around the european union pose serious risks of the resurgence of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent and of their possible proliferation among state and non-state actors, with serious concern being expressed about possible violations of the medium-range nuclear forces treaty, which has created tensions in relations within nato.
i am deeply concerned about the deterioration of the security environment around the european union and its neighbourhood, which could lead not only to the resurgence of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent, but also to their possible proliferation among state and non-state actors.
‒ i share the rapporteur's concern at the deterioration of the security environment around the european union and beyond its neighbourhood, which may lead not only to the resurgence of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent, but also to the possible proliferation between state and non-state actors, and to the failure to implement measures for effective disarmament and non-proliferation.
‒ the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, signed in 1968, is an important historical milestone, but it is also a binding legal instrument whose purpose is to prevent the expansion of the use of nuclear weapons and associated technology, while promoting cooperation for the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
the security environment across europe and its neighbourhood has increased in recent years, becoming volatile, dangerous and unpredictable, forcing member states to deal with a wide range of conventional and unconventional threats.
i support the work of the international atomic energy agency, which, through cooperation, promotes the safe and peaceful use of nuclear technologies.
‒ the npt is a landmark international treaty which aims to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and weapons technologies by promoting cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and the cause of nuclear disarmament on a global scale.
i therefore believe that it is essential to create a favourable environment for volunteering, either through its promotion by the member states or by the european institutions, which ensures the safe and sustainable operation of volunteering infrastructures, by giving substance to the idea that volunteering benefits from eu grants as part-financing.
volunteering makes a decisive contribution to numerous social, humanitarian and environmental causes at european and international level.
in this sense, it should be enhanced by emphasising the solidarity component which is a way of addressing human, social or environmental needs and concerns.
the european union and its member states cannot therefore afford to waste the potential inherent in the knowledge, creativity and skills of europe's 90 million young people.
the european union and its member states cannot therefore afford to waste the immense potential inherent in the knowledge, creativity and skills of europe's 90 million young people.
i agree with the rapporteur in calling on the member states to give young farmers long-term prospects to cope with the depopulation of rural areas, to implement a comprehensive strategy for generational renewal and, to this end, to make full use of all the possibilities provided for under the new cap to support young farmers and newly established farmers, including outside the family environment, in particular by granting aid to young farmers under the first and second pillars, and to facilitate the establishment in the agricultural sector and the entrepreneurship of farmers over 40 years of age.
public services in these areas are needed, diversification of production, care for environmental aspects, creation of opportunities for women and young people, tourism opportunities, shorter food supply chains and fair treatment of primary producers.
madam president, the development of transport by sea and inland waterways has potential economic and environmental benefits in terms of the mobility of passengers and goods.
the development of this means of transport can be a factor in promoting territorial, social and economic cohesion and contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
ceta is an instrument designed to open up public markets to multinationals and to level all social and environmental standards.
this policy aims to ensure that fisheries are environmentally, economically and socially sustainable and that they provide a source of healthy food for european citizens.
i voted in favour because i believe that clear and explicit regulations are important and that respect for environmental sustainability is of the utmost importance.
until we adopt a truly expansionary and distributive monetary policy, which supports sme investment and job creation by providing low-interest bank loans to peripheral member states that face the greatest difficulties in accessing credit, the objectives of sustainable economic recovery will not be achieved.
sound fiscal policies and socially balanced structural reforms geared to increasing productivity are the only way to bring about sustainable economic improvements in these member states.
i believe that only by implementing sound budgetary policies and balanced structural reforms aimed at increasing productivity will it be possible to bring about sustainable economic improvements in the member states in a more fragile situation, as is the case in portugal.
in this regard, it is important to foster a competitive environment and to maintain a level playing field for all actors, in particular established and new operators.
‒ inland waterway passenger transport plays a key role in building a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector.
the eu's maritime transport objective is to become a world leader in maritime research and innovation and shipbuilding, with a view to improving the efficiency and energy intelligence of ships, reducing environmental impact, minimising the risk of accidents and improving the quality of life at sea.
‒ the development of waterway transport sea and river is a very important issue for the mobility of passengers and goods, with enormous environmental and economic benefits.
this report is based on a good principle, namely the development of inland waterway transport as a factor of territorial, social and economic cohesion; as a factor in meeting the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing the environmental sustainability of transport; as a safer and more controllable means of transport.
‒ passenger transport by inland waterways, including sea ferries, river ferries, barges and cruise ships, plays a key role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, supported by policies that take into account safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, as well as quality of service, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility.
better use of available capacity for passenger transport by inland waterway could not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and provide better transport services in general.
‒ the development of waterway transport sea and river is a very important issue for the mobility of passengers and goods, with enormous environmental and economic benefits.
this report is based on a good principle, namely the development of inland waterway transport as a factor of territorial, social and economic cohesion; as a factor in meeting the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing the environmental sustainability of transport; as a safer and more controllable means of transport.
inland waterway passenger transport plays a key role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector and should be supported by policies that take into account safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, as well as quality of service, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility.
‒ passenger transport by inland waterways, including sea ferries, river ferries, barges and cruise ships, plays a key role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, supported by policies that take into account safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness, as well as quality of service, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility.
‒ the development of inland waterway, sea and river transport has potential economic and environmental benefits in terms of passenger and goods mobility.
it is relatively safe and controllable, can be a factor in promoting territorial, social and economic cohesion and can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i would stress that more than 400 million people transit through eu ports every year and some 120 million passengers are transported between ports in the same member state, which is why i support proposals to focus on less polluting and more energy-efficient technologies.
in this context, i would point out that i, as rapporteur for the european lng strategy, submitted to the committee on the environment a proposal for the use of liquefied natural gas to decarbonise the maritime sector and heavy transport.
i would point out that only by ensuring peace, respect for human rights and the rule of law, as well as independent judicial systems and the protection of minorities, can we achieve these development goals and the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
among the various measures proposed, the need for the private sector to respect the principles of international law and social and environmental standards is highlighted, with the aim of the european commission ensuring that companies operating from tax havens do not participate in projects financed by official development assistance.
some 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution considered harmful to human health.
as a member of the committee of inquiry into emissions from the motor vehicle sector in this parliament, i can say this with full knowledge of the facts, and we, commissioner, welcome this report in the wake of the marrakesh summit and the risks posed to the implementation of the paris agreement by the election of the new american president.
the global call in marrakesh for the trajectory of the fight against global warming and rising emissions to be maintained is good news, but action is key and this directive, now amended, makes an important contribution to the european union's leadership on this agenda.
an event that should have started with measures to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions and adapt to climate change turned out to be a huge disappointment.
the announced marrakesh charter can only go so far as to recognise the need to complete the work programme under the paris agreement 'as soon as possible', setting the time limit for cop 24 at the end of 2018. it has once again become clear that the paris agreement, which entered into force on 4 november, will only be able to move beyond paper with a strong mobilisation of the people and workers in defence of the environment and the climate, and by transforming our society with another model of development, socialism.
the eu is preparing to bring this treaty into force, which has very serious impacts on many productive sectors, on employment, the environment and public health.
ceta is an instrument designed to liberalise trade relations and open public markets to multinationals, while levelling down all social and environmental standards.
ceta is an instrument designed to open up public markets to multinationals and to level all social and environmental standards.
it will aim to halve the number of premature deaths estimated at 400 000 per year in the eu caused by air pollution by 2030. this proposal for revision sets new national emission reduction commitments, applicable from 2020 and 2030, for sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), non-methane volatile organic compounds (nvocs) and ammonia (nh3), and for fine particulate matter (pm2,5) and methane (ch4) as well.
as a result of the vote in the environment committee, among other things, mercury (hg) was added to the list of pollutants, the 2025 average targets were added to the legislation, methane targets were postponed until 2030 (to give the agricultural sector time to adapt) and the european commission's flexibility proposal was dropped.
based on a recent who report, air pollution is the greatest environmental health hazard, with an estimated three million air pollution-related deaths occurring each year.
this report, among other weaknesses, does not include some air pollutants whose emission seriously threatens the environment and health.
in the case of air quality, the answer is clear: it is a significant cross-border human health and environmental issue, which deeply affects all eu citizens and requires immediate action.
it will aim to halve the number of premature deaths estimated at 400 000 per year in the eu caused by air pollution by 2030. this proposal for revision sets new national emission reduction commitments, applicable from 2020 and 2030, for sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), non-methane volatile organic compounds (nvocs) and ammonia (nh3), and for fine particulate matter (pm2,5) and methane (ch4) as well.
as a result of the vote in the environment committee, among other things, mercury (hg) was added to the list of pollutants, the 2025 average targets were added to the legislation, methane targets were postponed until 2030 (to give the agricultural sector time to adapt) and the european commission's flexibility proposal was dropped.
this proposal on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants is part of the clean air for europe programme announced by the commission on 18 december 2013. after years of political neglect, air pollution has emerged on the international agenda as a major public health problem.
significant health costs are another consequence of poor air quality, with the total external health-related costs to society from air pollution in europe estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year.
it was agreed to support the full inclusion of ammonia and to exempt enteric methane emissions from ruminant cattle.
‒ this report concerns the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
i would remind you that air pollution is responsible for more than 400 000 premature deaths per year throughout the european union.
new targets are also set to reduce the health impacts of air pollution by around 50% by 2030, with different limits for each member state and each pollutant.
i therefore voted in favour of the amendments contained in this proposal for a directive, as they contribute to improving air quality and combating environmental and public health problems.
the report finds that after years of political neglect, air pollution has emerged on the political agenda as a major public health problem.
thus, according to the report, in europe, the total external costs to society related to health and caused by air pollution are estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year.
in addition, there is a growing body of evidence that atmospheric nitrogen deposition is leading to changes in the natural environment with impacts on biodiversity.
for our part, pollution and the inability to deal with this problem stem from the policies of privatisation of vast sectors of the economy, including transport and energy, condemning the states to be mere passive spectators of the progressive destruction of the planet.
i therefore welcome the proposals in this report to set more ambitious air quality targets, which will reduce the number of premature deaths from toxic air by almost half by 2030. i would also stress the role of clean electric mobility as an option that can make a very significant contribution to the fight against the reduction of emissions harmful to health.
finally, i would also like to stress the global call made in marrakesh to maintain the trajectory of combating global warming, and this directive, now amended, will make an important contribution to this by the european union.
‒ the european security environment has deteriorated considerably, becoming more fluid, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable.
there are legitimate concerns regarding the effects of this active substance on the environment, which justify the further development and improvement of the available knowledge with a view to taking the measures necessary for the protection of the environment and public health.
there are legitimate concerns regarding the effects of this active substance on the environment, which justify the further development and improvement of the available knowledge with a view to taking the measures necessary for the protection of the environment and public health.
this type of herbicide has proven to be an important tool for farmers as it contributes to the maintenance of sustainable pest control of the crops for which it is authorised.
for this reason, and because both the report and efsa stress that this substance does not represent an increased risk to human health or the environment, i considered that there would be insufficient reasons to object to its renewal, especially in view of the impact that such a measure would have on european farmers in general and portuguese farmers in particular.
unfortunately, there are serious problems in the aquatic world, including the marine environment, related to the trafficking of wildlife, including charismatic species like corals and turtles, among many others.
as a large multicultural and multiracial nation, the federative republic of brazil must guarantee indigenous peoples their rights within the framework of the democratic process, while fulfilling its commitments to the millennium development goals and the sustainability targets set out in the paris agreement.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
‒ the gradual ageing of european society means that the eu needs to adopt measures providing for an adequate, secure and sustainable level of pensions for its social security systems and facilitating the development of occupational retirement savings.
i think this debate and the existing sustainability proposals are extremely important, especially for the younger generations.
wildlife trafficking has major negative impacts on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of the countries of origin, natural resources and species conservation.
‒ the action plan is part of the eu's response to the united nations 2030 agenda for sustainable development, and in particular sustainable development goal 15, which calls for urgent action to end poaching and trafficking of protected species, and to address the demand for and supply of illegal wildlife products.
throughout the world, non-state armed groups, terrorist groups and others are increasingly involved in environmental crime, taking advantage of the exploitation of natural resources, which are easier to use than the income from other forms of exploitation, such as illicit drug trafficking, cigarettes or migrants.
this action plan represents a positive point in this fight, as it also integrates the 2030 agenda for sustainable development of the united nations, in particular with regard to the pillar of poaching and trafficking and trade in protected species.
only through a comprehensive and coordinated approach in policy areas such as trade, development, foreign policy, transport and tourism, justice and home affairs can we preserve biodiversity for future generations.
i therefore support this report, which will help to improve urban mobility in the future, which will be totally low-carbon.
it criticises belarus' options in the field of energy policy.
in addition to the interest in ensuring the overall reform and democratisation of the belarusian system, together with international partners, the eu also aims to promote the rehabilitation of released political prisoners, abolish the death penalty in the only country in europe still applying it, and monitor the construction of the ostrovets nuclear power plant through international supervision to ensure compliance with international nuclear and environmental safety requirements and standards.
the 2016 global forum, to be held in guadalajara, mexico, from 6 to 8 december, under the banner of inclusion and sustainable growth, will now consolidate the model of governance with evidence, founded on democratic values and based on networks of user forums structured at national, regional and global levels.
the solomon islands is a constitutional monarchy, having been a member of the commonwealth since 1978. political dialogues between these islands and the eu have focused on the protection of their vulnerable environment and on the defence of human rights and gender equality issues.
political dialogue between the parties has focused on climate change, the defence of human rights and gender equality issues.
the commission is now expected to step up political dialogue on issues such as the preservation of the environment, human rights and the promotion of gender equality.
as with other acp countries, the political dialogue between these parties has focused on the protection of their environment, which is very vulnerable, the defence of human rights and issues relating to the promotion of gender equality.
i believe that sustainable reconstruction and other post-disaster activities should be part of the structural funds, but that the evaluation of the implementation of the eusf should result in recommendations for reconstruction to be in line with the purpose of prevention and adaptation of infrastructure.
‒ the report, making a positive assessment of the implementation of this fund and the acuteness of the reform, suggests that member states optimise synergies with the strategic investment funds - in terms of developing natural disaster prevention, adaptation and mitigation instruments - and that reconstruction and these natural disaster prevention, adaptation and mitigation instruments always take into account the sustainability of reconstruction and resources, increasing resilience to the randomness of disasters.
the analysis carried out shows that although it is impossible to predict disaster and emergency situations, it is desirable to improve the management of the consequences of disasters at their various stages, especially in terms of sustainable damage repair and risk management.
‒ the report, making a positive assessment of the implementation of this fund and the acuteness of the reform, suggests that member states optimise synergies with the strategic investment funds - in terms of developing natural disaster prevention, adaptation and mitigation instruments - and that reconstruction and these natural disaster prevention, adaptation and mitigation instruments always take into account the sustainability of reconstruction and resources, increasing resilience to the randomness of disasters.
nothing is said about the harmful effects of free trade, the appropriation by multinational companies of natural resources and biodiversity, the increase in unemployment and the threat to sovereignty.
the proposed mobilisation requires the amendment of the 2016 budget to increase budget article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious repercussions on living conditions, the environment and the economy'.
this draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in respect of the floods in germany in may and june 2016. the commission therefore proposes to amend the 2016 budget by strengthening budget article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the environment or the economy' to eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations.
‒ draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in respect of the floods in germany in may and june 2016. the commission therefore proposes to amend the 2016 budget by strengthening budget article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the environment or the economy' to eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations.
‒ draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in respect of the floods in germany in may and june 2016. the commission therefore proposes to amend the 2016 budget by strengthening budget article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious consequences for living conditions, the environment or the economy' to eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations.
the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the budget line for assistance to member states in the event of major natural disasters with serious repercussions on living conditions, the environment or the economy, such as the severe floods in germany in may and june this year.
the european commission has calculated the gross amount of this contingency margin for 2017 and decided to increase the commitment appropriations of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017. due to the increasing urgency of responding to the needs arising from the refugee, migration and security crises, there will be an increase above the ceiling of heading 3 (security and citizenship) and heading 4 (global europe) of the multiannual financial framework, which will be offset by a gradual reduction over the following 3 years (2017, 2018 and 2019) of the amounts applied to areas not affected by the real eu urgencies, such as heading 2 'sustainable growth - natural resources' and heading 5 'governance'.
a further eur 200 million was allocated to programmes for growth and jobs, such as cosme - in the area of business competitiveness, the connecting europe facility - in the area of crossborder mobility and energy, horizon 2020 - in the area of research and innovation, and erasmus + - for student mobility.
i also believe that the procedures for activating the eu civil protection mechanism should be further simplified and that the commission should help to speed up sustainable reconstruction and investment in earthquake-resistant infrastructure and optimise existing eu funding for the prevention of natural disasters.
the present resolution makes a number of criticisms of this and other existing directives on the subject, which we are following, but nothing about the moratorium, merely suggesting an environmental impact assessment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
‒ this own-initiative report builds on directive 2013/30/eu on the safety of offshore operations, supplemented by the directives on environmental liability and environmental impact assessment.
the increase in farms due to energy requirements could lead to accidents whose damage to people, the economy and the environment must be prevented and repaired.
i stress the importance of updating the existing liability systems in the member states to ensure that the polluter pays principle is applied not only to environmental damage but also to cover the costs of traditional claims such as personal injury and property damage.
i would remind you that i tabled a number of amendments to the report in the committee on the environment, calling on the european commission to use the principles of precaution and preventive action in this area, which by its nature often has an impact on a cross-border dimension.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the resolution goes on without any reference to the importance and imperative need to respect the political sovereignty of the beneficiary countries in energy matters and that initiatives in this area must take into account the national context, respond to the aspirations of the population and the needs of the country.
it also points to greater involvement of the private sector in energy development aid programmes as a way of achieving the seventh sustainable development goal - ensuring reliable, sustainable, modern and affordable access to energy for all.
we know that the logic of the market and profit maximisation has had a negative impact on access to energy and increased costs of access to energy, contributing to the phenomena of energy poverty of substantial proportions in the eu.
‒ this motion for a resolution draws attention to the importance of access to energy in developing countries, as this access is a powerful instrument for reducing poverty in these countries and consequently for achieving the sustainable development goals, in line with the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement.
the commission has also proposed that the eu should support the development of the energy sector in the countries concerned, in particular by supporting the european commission's 'energy for development' initiative, implementing the icd regulation and promoting the use of renewable energy in africa, particularly solar and wind power in rural areas.
‒ this resolution examines the situation and main challenges faced in implementing planned development assistance in the field of energy and the prospects for its continued implementation.
however, this resolution does not mention the importance of respecting the political sovereignty of the beneficiary countries in energy matters and that initiatives in this area must take account of the national context and respond to the aspirations of the population and the needs of the country.
it is also noted that an increasing contribution from private investment is needed to achieve the seventh sustainable development goal - ensuring reliable, sustainable, modern and affordable access to energy for all.
the right to and universal access to energy will never be the work of any private interest.
only a strong public energy sector can guarantee this right.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on access to energy in developing countries because i agree with the need to strengthen the strong link between access to energy and human and economic development.
i would therefore like to stress my support for the commission's 'energy for development' initiative, which aims to give an additional 500 million people in developing countries access to sustainable energy by 2030. i also stress the role of energy as a catalyst for many other areas such as health, education, but also telecommunications and internet connectivity which i believe should be universal access rights.
by reducing the damage that drift does to cold coral reefs and deep-sea sponges, we are preserving a legacy that goes back thousands of years, and at the same time, we are helping to protect the reproduction and sustainability of fisheries resources.
madam president, the progress made in the completion of the energy union must also be a boost to save the european project.
we must seize this opportunity to modernise the market, make it more transparent, efficient and fair, improve interconnections and regulation, develop production processes and create even smarter networks, tackle regional asymmetries, ensure the competitiveness of industry and services, ensure universal access to electricity and reduce energy poverty.
clean energy is a good choice for the planet and for people.
today it is also part of the energy needed for the european project to survive.
over the past few decades, all public energy production and distribution systems have been privatized.
huge private energy groups have been created that control political power and rely on this supremacy to secure more power and more profits for their companies.
the only way to have a sustainable world, with a clean energy policy that is accessible to all, can only be achieved with public policies and with public control over the production and distribution of energy.
the proposed measures show a strong concern for the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems and biologically sensitive areas, while ensuring the sustainability of the ecosystem.
the adoption of these and other measures set out in the regulation will improve scientific knowledge of deep-sea species and their habitats, implement technical fisheries management measures and thus ensure a more sustainable exploitation of deep-sea species, while minimising the impact of deep-sea fishing activities on the marine environment.
this report calls on the member states to improve the investment environment and to expand the range of financial instruments available to micro-enterprises and smes in the cultural and creative sectors through new and innovative financing schemes such as microcredit, repayable contributions, crowdfunding, venture capital financing, start-up capital and venture capital.
‒ this report recognises the cultural and creative industries (ccis), traditionally based on cultural values and creativity, as a strategic sector for job creation and sustainable growth, supporting cultural heritage and promoting innovation.
i am, however, in favour of the accession of this country to the trade agreement between the european union and the andean community, not for reasons of circumstance or as a response to natural disasters, but because this agreement will enable the country to continue its path of economic, social, labour and environmental growth and development in a more sustained way and geared to the real interests of its citizens, while at the same time intensifying its relations with our continent, which thus has the possibility of strengthening its political, economic and financial weight in this part of the world with which we have strong historical, cultural and diplomatic relations.
in this particular case, i fear that the randomness of the climate is being deliberately mixed with financial speculation and price manipulation by the big multinationals and the big retailers.
to try to blame climate change as the main cause of increasing price volatility is to try to impose or accentuate an increasingly market-oriented reform of the cap and further aggravate the causes of this instability.
if we do not strengthen the means, we will seriously jeopardise the sustainability of agricultural activity in europe, especially in areas where it contributes most to the fixing of the population, as is the case in the azores.
we therefore call for specific indicators for the outermost regions to be taken into account in order to trigger measures in the event of a crisis in the agricultural sector, in order to guarantee a sustainable level of income for farmers in these regions.
‒ like the proposal to amend the partnership and cooperation agreement with uzbekistan, i also voted in favour of this non-legislative resolution on the same subject, as it sets out a set of proposals alongside the approval of the agreement, stressing on the one hand the importance for the european union of respect for human rights and the rule of law, labour conditions in accordance with international labour organisation (ilo) standards and respect for the environment, and on the other hand listing the reforms that the government of uzbekistan has carried out to improve labour standards and respect for human rights, which are sine qua non conditions for the establishment of trade agreements with the european union.
in fact, the inclusion of ecuador in the trade agreement creates a favourable environment for closer ties not only with ecuador but also between those andean countries.
‒ on 20 november 2015, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement, in which it welcomes the conclusion of the negotiations with ecuador and encourages the swift entry into force and full implementation of this agreement, considering that it will allow ecuador to pursue policies aimed at stimulating sustainable economic and social development in a difficult regional and international context.
the provisions of the trade agreement allow the accession of other andean community countries (ecuador and bolivia), and the aim is that once this process is completed, ecuador will be able to pursue its policies to stimulate economic, social, labour and environmental growth and development in a sustainable way.
in addition, the agreement contains a chapter on trade and sustainable development, which includes ambitious provisions on labour and environmental protection and aims to ensure a predictable and stable environment for investors and operators in the regions covered.
to that end, it is essential to ensure that appropriate fisheries management and conservation measures are taken in those waters, keeping stocks above levels that can achieve maximum sustainable yield.
after six rounds of trilogues, parliament reached an agreement with the council presidency on 19 april 2016. the agreement reached includes, inter alia:the obligation for the competent authorities to define the specifications of public service obligations (psos) for public passenger transport;the setting of compensation will have to be done at a level that ensures the financial sustainability of the provision of the public passenger transport service;the compliance by public service operators with the applicable obligations in the field of social and labour law as defined in union legislation, national legislation or collective agreements in the exercise of psos;the obligation for public service operators and infrastructure managers to provide the competent authority with information that is essential for the award of future public service contracts (psos).
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
according to european legislators, this should make rail travel more attractive than other modes of transport with a higher environmental impact.
the port services covered by the regulation are refuelling, mooring, towing and the collection of waste generated on board ships and cargo waste.
the port services covered by the regulation are refuelling, mooring, towing and the collection of waste generated on board ships and cargo waste.
‒ this report is on a proposal for a regulation establishing a regulatory framework for access to port services and financial transparency in ports, in order to contribute to a more transparent, efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the trans-european transport network (ten-t).
its members are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
its members are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
its members are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years.
i therefore believe that this financial flow should promote innovation in the exploitation of these resources (production, use and conservation), in ensuring environmental sustainability and in the safety of workers.
the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvements and occupational safety in the relevant sectors.
the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvements and occupational safety in the relevant sectors.
the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvements and occupational safety in the relevant sectors.
‒ the challenges facing the european union in the field of defence (terrorism, hybrid threats, cybersecurity, organised crime or energy security) require an operational and effective common security and defence policy (csdp).
‒ the european union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflict, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cybersecurity and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change, and only the eu can respond effectively to the new challenges.
however, the union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges today, including new conflicts in the polymorphic international community, energy insecurity, terrorism, cybersecurity, organised crime and climate change.
ensuring peace and stability in europe is a key priority for sustainable development, and tackling the root causes of instability, terrorism, radicalisation and forced and irregular migration in the neighbourhood is crucial, and the new migration partnerships and the external investment plan are of great importance in this regard.
i also stress that the union remains the world's largest economic power and the largest donor of humanitarian and development assistance, as well as a pioneer in world diplomacy in areas such as climate change, international justice, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and human rights.
market uncertainty, as well as economic and climate risks, are likely to increase in the coming years.
it is due to market factors (supply and demand), political decisions (trade agreements in the global market), financial investments and speculation (financial investments in agricultural products) and climate factors.
it is due to market factors (supply and demand), political decisions (trade agreements in the global market), financial investments and speculation (financial investments in agricultural products) and climate factors.
in this particular case, i fear that the randomness of the climate is being deliberately mixed with financial speculation and price manipulation by the big multinationals and the big retailers.
to try to blame climate change as the main cause of increasing price volatility is to try to impose or accentuate an increasingly market-oriented reform of the cap and further aggravate the consequences of this instability.
despite all the warnings and evidence that we are living in a hybrid war environment, it is intolerable that the commission and the member states, which have lately been ready to use the argument of security to justify breaches of human rights and the rule of law, as is the case, for example, in the reception of migrants and refugees, are not in fact taking cybersecurity and the devastating potential of attacks on critical infrastructure and networks seriously.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
statistics show that most citizens turn to parliament for help on issues relating to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights.
the analysis shows that most citizens who use this procedure to turn to the european parliament seek assistance on matters relating to the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market.
the analysis shows that most citizens who use this procedure to turn to parliament seek assistance on matters relating to the environment, fundamental rights, justice and the internal market.
the main issues addressed are environmental legislation, violations of fundamental rights, the administration of justice (in particular custody rights for minors), the rights of the child, disabled persons and minorities, free movement of persons, discrimination, immigration, employment and animal welfare.