member states should pay greater attention to non-industrial fishing because it is more sustainable and guarantees employment in coastal areas.
the next item is the debate on the objection pursuant to rule 106 on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6) (2015/2988(rps)).
i am very reserved, because if we reject what the commission is introducing for the first time, a test system based on measuring emissions from the exhaust pipe during traffic, we will be prolonging the process very much.
i do not know whether, for the citizens, putting off measurement for years and introducing the test system to measure the exhaust emissions of motor vehicles in circulation would be a solution.
we need legislation that is proportionate if we are going to create an environment that supports investment.
‒ when dealing with this fishing sustainability, we must safe-guard long term productivity, promote local employment opportunities, encourage the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and a responsible exploitation of fisheries resources.
large vessels owners are too dominant and might harm the fishing sustainability.
i therefore support transposal into union law of the measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meetings between 2012 and 2014. i believe that the technical measures included in the multiannual recovery plan will lead to positive developments for environment, nature and local employment.
competition policy must pay particular attention to the objectives of sustainable development and social cohesion.
‒ i voted for the annual report on eu competition policy because eu competition policy contributes to the objectives of the agenda for jobs and growth, including in areas such as the digital single market, energy policy and industrial policy.
at the same time, a strong interaction between competition enforcement and the internal energy market is needed to remove barriers to the free movement of energy across borders and build the energy union.
the report calls on the commission to ensure that member states implement in a timely manner the new public procurement legislation, as well as the new provisions on the consideration of social and environmental criteria and the division of contracts into lots, in order to stimulate innovation and fair competition and to support smes in public procurement markets, ensuring the best value for money in the use of public funds.
this is important to boost entrepreneurship and create a new business environment.
‒ the european union needs smart and sustainable economic growth.
– i have voted for this report that supports female entrepreneurship through sustainable and inclusive policies that aim to enable equal economic independence and to develop european entrepreneurship and growth.
it is important to understand the european union's need for more entrepreneurs, and its strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth (europe 2020) explicitly states that more concrete strategic initiatives are needed to develop european entrepreneurship.
europe's return to sustainable economic growth and job creation depends to a large extent on the growth of european entrepreneurs.
‒ i support the rapporteur's position that trust of users and businesses in the digital environment is vital for the full unlocking of innovation and growth in the digital economy, and one solution to increase this trust is adequate data protection and security standards and a high level of consumer protection and empowerment.
i stress the importance of developing european satellite radio navigation systems, investing in fast communications networks and in the digitalisation of the energy sector, meters and smart grids.
they are developing in view of the london conference a very creative and ambitious plan to create job opportunities together for jordanians and syrian refugees, which i believe is going to be extremely important to making integration of syrian refugees in the host communities sustainable in the mid-term, in the long term, without creating a conflict in these host communities, because the perspective of hosting syrians in large numbers for a long time in a country that is surrounded by crisis and is not rich in natural resources in any particular way might create social or economic conflicts that we need to prevent.
as i expressed in the statement that i issued on the same day, the death penalty can in no way be sustainable or an efficient response to crime or terrorism.
we cannot afford to waste any of these positive trends and we cannot afford to expose them to tensions that need to stay contained – if possible at a bilateral level.
the new gas appliances regulation is an example of union harmonisation legislation, ensuring both the free movement of gas appliances and the placing on the market or putting into service of gas appliances that meet higher consumer safety standards, thereby also reducing gas safety risks and ensuring, at the same time, a more rational use of energy.
i am pleased and very grateful that the rapporteur, mrs stihler, has embraced the idea of introducing and amending the text from the point of view of consumer safety, adding amendments relating to the precautions that should have been and must be taken to avoid and prevent the poisoning of people with gases, including carbon monoxide, and the leakage of any substances that could cause health and safety problems, carbon monoxide poisoning being a major cause of death associated with the use of gas appliances.
the dutch presidency must take concrete steps to create the digital single market and to implement the energy union projects.
the dutch presidency must actively engage in achieving the union's energy union objectives by promoting common energy market rules.
the eu must take decisive steps to strengthen its energy policy based on competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply.
the european investment fund is a tool in the hands of the dutch presidency to encourage the promotion of investment projects in the modernisation of energy infrastructure, cross-border network connectivity and to promote technologies that promote energy efficiency.
the dutch eu presidency has the opportunity to tackle a number of impactful energy and telecommunications proposals during its term.
the dutch presidency also set out to contribute to the energy union objectives of reducing energy dependency and ensuring affordable energy.
the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the energy union strategy, which will be presented in the next few months.
the text, which is in line with the single market act, will be strengthened from the point of view of consumer safety by adding amendments related to the precautions to be taken to avoid carbon monoxide poisoning in people, which is the main cause of deaths associated with the use of gas appliances in europe.
it is noted that member states still retain their competence to regulate other aspects of cable installations such as land use, regional planning and environmental protection, although they opt for regulation.
personally, i can only welcome such a measure, which will facilitate the adoption of this mode of transport in the urban environment, where we are faced on a small scale with the most serious pollution problems, which have serious implications for the health of european citizens.
‒ granting a requesting country the benefit of the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance by adding it to the list of gsp+ countries is an important step in that country's development, which is why the union wants to ensure that it supports the strengthening of a democratic system and that all the measures that follow from this are geared towards the safety of citizens and the respect of their fundamental rights.
the european union is also a key player in the fight against climate change.
i'm absolutely convinced that there's going to be major technological changes that will make the financial hierarchy of energy quite different from what it is today.
as many of you have already pointed out, in some cases renewable energy is already much cheaper, when you add up the direct and indirect costs, than highly polluting energy such as coal.
the icao has set itself the objective of reaching an agreement by september 2016 to stabilise aviation emissions after 2020, and why not to reduce them.
first of all, it seems to me that the eu should encourage the recognition of emissions levels from the maritime sector and the establishment of a system for measuring global emissions from the maritime sector.
but you are absolutely right, because this represents considerable greenhouse gas emissions, that this year, significant progress must be made in both these areas.
thirdly, many of you have spoken, and you are quite right, about low carbon, high carbon, competitiveness and so on.
there is no contradiction between greenhouse gas emissions on the one hand and the requirements of competitiveness or employment on the other.
of course, we need changes, we need accompanying measures, but i am absolutely convinced that competitiveness, not only for countries like ours but also at world level, must go hand in hand with a move towards low-carbon production, and this is where we come to the question - i believe mr jadot asked it - of divestment or investment.
you know the numbers: we're talking about 100 billion that we rich countries have to allocate to poor countries for climate, but the money that goes into fossil fuel subsidies is over 500 billion a year; so we have orders of magnitude in mind.
secondly, to answer mr jadot, we must encourage private sector actors not to invest, or even to divest, in the high carbon sectors and, as far back as cop 21, we are seeing a movement: the first sovereign wealth fund, which is a norwegian fund, has instructed that there should be divestments in this sector, to the extent that the governor of the bank of england believes that the next financial bubble could well occur in the carbon sector, because we will see that this sector, of course, will have difficulties, whereas massive investments have been made in it.
i think that in the private sector, we can ask central bankers and rating agencies to now systematically take climate risk into account and make the disclosure of carbon footprints mandatory.
however, in parallel with this trend towards divestment, there is a need to maintain a constant effort in favour of investments in renewable energy; the needs are immense.
when we had public meetings, five, 10 years ago, etc., half the meeting was devoted to whether or not there was climate change, and the second half of the meeting was devoted to whether it was due to human action.
there have been major greenhouse gas emitters that have taken very strong positions: china, the leading emitter, which for obvious reasons, which are practical, economic, societal and social reasons, has played a very important role, president obama, who has been very committed and, of course, the european union, and other countries, but this has allowed for there to be, in parallel, a very strong evolution of the economic circles, the involvement of the communes, the involvement of the regions, the involvement of the ngos, the involvement of the great spiritual and religious voices, and all of this, this planet that i call the political-social, which is a new element, which has obviously made the paris conference in very different circumstances from the famous copenhagen conference.
to truly understand the success of this conference, it is enough to look at the results of all previous climate change conferences, which have proven to be completely ineffective.
limiting global warming to 2 degrees celsius and committing to work towards 1.5 degrees over time is a desirable goal that will be achieved through technological innovation and major investment.
moldova is one of the three countries currently experiencing a difficult political environment and financial instability that has become perpetual.
therefore, the priority of the chisinau government must be to restore the implementation of free trade agreements and, further, to maintain a stable situation, which allows the construction of a system of solid and sustainable reforms, both at the institutional, economic and political levels.
such an environment is a precondition for any thorough reform ambition conducive to genuine and profound progress.
moreover, it promotes a number of democratic principles, embodied in cooperation policies in areas such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs.
the agreement covers a number of areas, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, establishing a framework for cooperation in areas such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs.
the main objectives of this committee will be to monitor the emission test cycles carried out and to adapt them when they no longer meet the requirements so that they adequately reflect the emissions generated by real road traffic.
‒ i supported the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive sector, in order to restore trust amongst consumers after the outbreak of the emissions scandal.
the newly formed 45-member committee will investigate breaches of eu rules on car emissions testing and allegations that member states and the european commission have failed to apply eu standards.
i also believe that the aa/dcfta provisions regarding energy cooperation are of great importance in order to ensure the development of competitive, transparent and non-discriminatory energy markets in line with eu rules and standards.
as s&d itre coordinator, i stress the importance of energy cooperation, security of supply and the development of competitive, transparent and non-discriminatory energy markets in line with eu rules and standards, as well as renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the eu wants to strengthen the full integration of moldova, ukraine and georgia into the energy market through the energy community.
the active support and solidarity in the field of energy demonstrated by the eu allowed russia to resume gas supplies to ukraine in the winter of 2015-2016. thus, member states should fully exploit the transit potential of ukraine, strengthen their cooperation to ensure energy supply to both the eu and ukraine and avoid the construction of new pipelines to deliver gas from russia to europe bypassing ukraine, which could have a negative impact on the eu's energy diversification strategy and on eu legislation.
i support the eu's intention to promote the full integration of ukraine into the energy market through the energy community and to reduce energy dependence without placing an undue burden on private households.
respect for human rights must be mainstreamed in all policies, such as those on peace and security, development cooperation, migration, trade and investment, humanitarian action, climate change and the fight against terrorism.
the priorities of the unhrc sessions in 2016 should include respect for civil and political rights, including individual and collective freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and association, economic and social rights, adopting a human rights-based approach to migration, the impact of climate change on human rights, and respect for the rights of women and children.
it will also discuss specific issues that persist in various countries, including civil and political rights, social and economic rights, business rights, immigration, climate change, women's rights, children's rights, sexual minority rights, the death penalty and press freedom.
i believe we have to strongly focus on the needs of citizens, who were especially concerned by matters related to the environment, internal market or fundamental rights.
among the favourite topics addressed by petitioners are justice, the environment, the internal market and fundamental rights, where it seems that there are the most problems at member state level.
our consistent message is that economic and social development must go together with political and human rights to make it sustainable.
ethiopia is an important partner for the european union in many areas – migration, climate change, regional peace and stability to name but a few.
it is up to the international community to seize the opportunities for sustainable action.
north korea should focus on the much-needed human rights reforms that its citizens require, not on destabilisation and illegal actions that create an insecure and threatening environment to the detriment of all.
in an economy constantly subject to the effects of globalisation, and in the context of fierce competition and enormous pressure for efficient food production to feed the rapidly growing world population, there are very high pressures on global biodiversity and the agricultural sector in particular, leading to irreversible changes that are highly damaging to nature, society and the economy.
european citizens should not only be aware of the significant economic costs of biodiversity loss, especially given that these costs have not been sufficiently integrated into economic and other policies, but also of the significant potential of biodiversity to create new skills, jobs and business opportunities.
in writing.– europe’s biodiversity is in decline and not due to the absence of measures but due to a poor implementation of the current legislation.
therefore, better implementation and enforcement of nature directives, together with adequate funding, would represent the best way to act today; this would be a great step to achieve the 2020 biodiversity target with a positive impact on nature, people and businesses.
we need a holistic approach of biological diversity in agriculture and the environment.
the role of the common agricultural policy should not be forgotten here, together with the impact of individual farmers in preserving biodiversity.
according to eurobarometer, over 80 % of europeans are concerned about the loss of biodiversity in europe and therefore, it is not the time now to revise the nature directives, as such a measure would lead to delays and uncertainty.
if through this platform we succeed in transferring some proven practices across sectors and member states and regularising a part of the grey economy, we would not only bolster fair competition and ensure more sustainability for public finances, we would also put an end to the exploitation of millions of undeclared workers who do not have the social protection or health and safety guarantees that others enjoy.
this is a crucial factor for supporting a better business environment for every company active in the single market, be it small or large.
‒ air pollution is harmful to human health and the environment.
in europe, emissions of many air pollutants have decreased substantially in recent decades, leading to an improvement in air quality in the region.
most importantly, the problems caused by air pollution must be solved at the international level.
in this context, i welcome the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the 1998 amendments to the protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, relating to heavy metals.
this draft decision constitutes one of the beneficial measures contributing to the identification of specific measures to reduce emissions of air pollutants.
the amended protocol sets out, in particular, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain major stationary sources, as well as flexible transitional arrangements that will benefit those parties that accede the amended protocol before the end of 2019. the amendment is fully consistent with existing eu legislation.
‒ i welcome this report because the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution protects the human environment against air pollution.
the heavy metals protocol aims at reducing and controlling anthropogenic emissions of lead into the atmosphere.
‒ the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has as its purpose the protection of the human environment from air pollution.
‒ air pollution is harmful to human health and ecosystems.
a large part of the population does not live in a healthy environment by today's standards.
one of these is the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution and the protocols to that convention.
in view of the changes in pollution levels from year to year, the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the aforementioned convention represent a necessary adaptation to the new environmental realities.
i voted in favour of this report because ratification of the amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates implementation requirements for several substances, updates restrictions for pcdd/pcdf emissions from several sources, and adds pcbs to the list of substances affected by the total annual emission restrictions and reporting obligations.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because this convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has created a framework to combat and reduce damage to human health and the environment.
– the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution has as is purpose the protection of the human environment from air pollution.
i have voted for this recommendation that updates restrictions on dioxin and furan emissions from several sources and updates implementation requirements for several substances.
it undermines the financial sustainability of social protection systems, deprives workers of adequate social benefits and generates lower pension rights and limited access to healthcare.
‒ we voted in favour of this report, which combats labour law violations and tax evasion, with the aim of increasing the number of jobs in a market characterised by fair competition, social security and sustainable fiscal stability.
increased regularisation, as a result, will provide for decent livelihoods and the needed services to customers, all while fairly contributing to market competition and sustainable fiscal stabilisation.
‒ biodiversity is currently under enormous pressure, both globally and in europe.
habitat change, pollution, over-harvesting, invasive alien species and climate change are the main causes of the decline of biodiversity.
in these circumstances, i believe that more political will is needed to effectively address the current state of biodiversity as a political priority.
at the same time, the worrying state of biodiversity generates devastating economic costs for society, which have so far not been sufficiently integrated into economic and other policies.
in a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe, nature must be at the centre, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ as the eu's efforts to halt the decline of biodiversity in 2010 failed, a new strategy was drawn up in 2011, developed around six objectives, each with its own specific actions: (1) full implementation of the habitats and birds directives (the nature directives); (2) maintenance and restoration of ecosystems and ecosystem services; (3) increasing the contribution of agriculture and forestry to maintaining and improving biodiversity; (4) ensuring the sustainable use of fish stocks; (5) combating invasive species; and (6) contributing to the eu's contribution to avoiding the decline of global biodiversity.
i support the ep motion for a resolution on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy, believing that biodiversity and nature must be at the heart of an innovative, sustainable and inclusive europe.
i also believe that a strong will from the elites is needed to address biodiversity decline as a political priority, and that it is important to involve more stakeholders and give a special role to local and regional actors.
‒ i fully agree with the rapporteur's argument that biodiversity must be protected for its enormous intrinsic value and to keep our planet as intact as possible for future generations.
i believe that investing in nature and biodiversity provides opportunities that are useful and necessary from a socioeconomic point of view, and that is why i believe that we need to change our mindset about biodiversity.
‒ the main aim of the strategic own-initiative report on ‘the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy’ is to respond to the state of nature in europe report, and the mid-term review of the eu’s biodiversity strategy.
in the fruitful negotiations at committee level, the s&d colleagues managed to integrate our important point to have a holistic approach to biological diversity in agriculture and the environment as well as the conservation of genetic diversity.
the full implementation of the nature directives is a necessary precondition to achieve the 2020 biodiversity target.
‒ i have voted for this report, which reiterates the need for additional, innovative solutions in order to halt biodiversity loss.
biodiversity and nature must be central in a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe.
‒ biodiversity represents the unique variety of ecosystems, habitats, species and genes on earth, and its loss is a loss to nature, humanity and the economy.
i have voted in favour of this report on the eu biodiversity strategy, which is essential for nature itself as well as for health, wellbeing and welfare of the generations to come.
taking into consideration that the loss of biodiversity and the disintegration of the ecosystem have been found by the world economic forum, in a 2014 ‘global risk perception survey’, to be among one of the 10 biggest risks facing the global community, and that our existence is so closely intertwined with the sustainability of natural resources, it is paramount that we adopt an ambitious and consistent approach to secure a reversal of former bad trends.
we need to focus more attention towards meeting the targets as set out in the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 to avoid repeating the failure of 2010 where the targets were not met.
the prevention of biodiversity loss therefore should be a top priority.
indeed, we know that not only does investing in biodiversity carry positive results for the natural environment it is also connected to socio-economic development.
‒ the preservation of biodiversity is one of the eu's strategic objectives in the field of environmental protection.
significant measures in this area include encouraging farmers through the common agricultural policy to respect biodiversity, as well as protecting the marine environment, avoiding the introduction of invasive species, protecting pollinators, combating deforestation and supporting research and innovation.
i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the mid-term evaluation of the eu biodiversity strategy.
biodiversity, today under enormous pressure both globally and in europe, is essential to our health and well-being, but also to our economic prosperity.
european efforts to halt the decline of biodiversity in 2010 have failed.
for this reason, the eu developed a new strategy in 2011. the rapporteur advocates greater political will to effectively address biodiversity decline as a political priority and believes that a multi-stakeholder approach is needed, in which local and regional actors play a special role.
madam president, the presence of endocrine disruptors in our environment raised concerns in recent years because harmful effects have been observed on reproduction, growth, the development of human life and the environment.
‒ the health of its citizens and the protection of the environment have always been important objectives for the european union.
i support a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environmental and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, and believe that this can be achieved while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
the soybeans which have been authorised are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health.
the commission must come forward with a new proposal for gmo food and feed, which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of gmos.
‒ the environmental impacts of gmos must be assessed through a new proposal from the commission for gmo food and fodder.
the report states that the implementing decision is not consistent with parliament’s and the council’s regulation on ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring effective operation of the internal market.
there are values that we all aspire to as a people, and i am referring here to the need to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environmental interests and consumer interests when it comes to genetically modified food and feed.
in the case of genetically modified soybean (fg72, mon 87708 × mon 89788, mon 87705 × mon 89788) resistance to herbicides may be harmful to the environment or to the health of consumers.
for this reason, the european parliament has raised this objection, which is justified and is in fact a request for a more thorough assessment of the effects of gmos, in order to avoid any risks to the environment and european consumers.
‒ environment and food safety must be the limiting framework for the development of the internal market, without which any economic progress would in fact be an attack on the health of all consumers, who are protected by the european treaties.
the soybeans which have been authorised are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health.
the commission must come forward with a new proposal for gmo food and feed, which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of gmos.
‒ the environmental impacts of gmos must be rigorously assessed through a new proposal from the commission for gmo food and fodder.
‒ i voted for this motion for a resolution with regard to the authorisation of placing on the market products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788. the report states that the implementing decision is not consistent with parliament’s and the council’s regulation on ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring effective operation of the internal market.
‒ in this century, the development of agriculture is taking place at the micro-cellular level, and the risks that the union must monitor as a guarantor of the food safety of its citizens and of the protection of the environment revolve around the safety of genetically modified organisms.
the soybeans which have been authorised are resistant to certain herbicides, therefore their cultivation could encourage more liberal use of herbicides, which could be harmful to the environment and/or human health.
the commission must come forward with a new proposal for gmo food and feed, which more thoroughly assesses the environmental impacts of gmos.
‒ the environmental impacts of gmos must be rigorously assessed through a new proposal from the commission for gmo food and fodder.
‒ i voted for this motion for a resolution with regard to the authorisation of placing on the market products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788. the report states that the implementing decision is not consistent with parliament’s and the council’s regulation on ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, whilst ensuring effective operation of the internal market.
‒ air pollution from nitrogen oxides (no2) emissions causes 75 000 premature deaths in europe each year, with 93% of cases of exceeding normal concentrations occurring near roads, or this situation is of concern and requires specific measures.
at the same time, addressing nox emissions from diesel engines should contribute to reducing the current high levels of no2 concentrations in ambient air.
i voted against this objection because the withdrawal of the commission's draft regulation will cause the real driving emissions measures to be implemented with far too much delay, given that the current car emissions tests have been unchanged for some 30 years.
‒ i supported the objection as the draft commission regulation would result in a de facto blanket derogation from applicable emissions limits, and is therefore not consistent with union law, in that it is not compatible with the aim and content of regulation (ec) no 715/2007.
the commission should withdraw the draft regulation and submit a new one without delay and no later than 1 april 2016, in order to introduce a real driving emissions test for all vehicles with a view to ensuring the effectiveness of emission control systems and enabling vehicles to comply with regulation (ec) no 715/2007 and its implementing measures.
first, the european commission's proposal provides for a mechanism that reduces emissions by about five times and allows the car industry to switch their manufacturing technology for the next step in reducing emissions.
as i have already said, we need to strike a balance between regulations for protecting the environment in europe and supporting industry, as long as europe is not the world's biggest polluter and as long as we do not have trade defence regulations for european industry in relation to non-european.
i support environmental policies, but we need to implement them rationally.
i voted for a set of rules for light passenger and light commercial vehicles (euro 6) to allow for the rapid implementation of real-world co2 emissions testing so that all the requirements of eu legislation are met.
the commission has committed to closely monitoring real-world co2 emissions testing for all vehicles in the future to ensure the effectiveness of emission control systems.
we need to promote an innovative and sustainable european industry that puts the interests of consumers first.
‒ i have voted against this motion for a resolution that should introduce a new real driving emissions test for all vehicles.
‒ i abstained from voting for or against this motion for a resolution because i believe that at this moment we need more data on the real emissions of passenger cars and commercial vehicles.
ongoing efforts to improve transparency in eu trade agreements are imperative for achieving the sustainable development goals, for the interests of european companies and european consumers, and for maintaining the stability of financial markets.
the commission must take a fair and firm stance in the negotiation of tisa in favour of the economic environment of all member states and in particular in favour of emerging economies that can deliver sustainable and strong long-term growth to the eu economy.
for sustainable development, the european union needs to mainstream gender equality and women's empowerment in its trade policy, and the principles of inclusion and equity need to be applied in legislation and case law, at procedural, structural and political levels, as well as in everyday life.
thus, through regulations and legislation adapted to the requirements of european society, horizontal and vertical gender segregation in women's access to and participation in the european labour market can be drastically reduced by facilitating entrepreneurship for the creation of a sustainable and inclusive growth economy.
visa liberalisation has already been mentioned, or the strengthening of the rule of law, the improvement of the business climate.
don't forget: kosovo still generates more than a third of its revenue from customs duties today - in a europe without customs duties, this is no longer sustainable.
madam president, mr minister, the european parliament, the commission and the council, but not least the member states and the relevant international institutions, must have as their main concern the strengthening of an economic environment capable of guaranteeing the security of investment and international trade.
i think they are the closest to the people, they understand the local needs, the policies and initiatives that can change people's lives in the areas of job creation, innovation, health, environment, energy, transport.
limited resources at the level of some local governments remain the main obstacle to the contracting and co-financing of massive development work, from transport and infrastructure to health or the environment.
it has also made substantial efforts to develop the business environment, reduce the budget deficit and develop the labour market, including in terms of labour law and employment policy.
serbia has demonstrated that it can be a socioeconomic driver in the western balkans: it has reduced the budget deficit, improved employment policy and the investment climate.
i have voted for this motion for a resolution that welcomes the opening of negotiations on financial control at the intergovernmental conference that took place in brussels on the 14th of december 2015. this new report highlights serbia’s progress and areas that need improving on the rule of law, democracy, human rights, respect for and protection of minorities, regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, energy, the environment and transport.
serbia, as a contracting party to the energy community, should remain active within the energy community institutions and continue to implement the acquis in order to build sustainable and secure energy systems.
the authorities should start to implement the targets set in the energy sector development strategy, as there is no significant investment in the renewable energy sector.
we encourage serbia to develop competition in the natural gas market and to take measures to improve alignment with the acquis in the areas of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the commission should play a stronger role in supporting the serbian government to reduce the country's dependence on energy imports and diversify serbia's gas supply.
we draw attention to the ipa ii 2015 package which includes a programme of eur 155 million to contribute to the financing of major regional infrastructure projects in the energy and transport sectors in the western balkans.
we also encourage serbia to align with the eu's average climate change commitments and the paris agreement of cop 21.
in writing.
‒ the human rights and humanitarian situation in libya has deteriorated amid escalating violence and an increasingly volatile political environment.
‒ european islands are distinctive in terms of their environmental conditions, with endemic habitats and species, but also in terms of their cultural aspects, with their architectural heritage, sites, landscapes, agricultural and non-agricultural characteristics and outstanding geographical identities.
european islands have a significant role to play in strengthening sustainable development in the union, given their high potential for producing energy from renewable sources, due to their specific exposure to wind, tidal and sunlight.
however, some of the union's islands also fall within peripheral regions and are vulnerable to various challenges facing europe such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply and, especially in the southern areas, exposure to increasing migration flows.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a strategic approach is needed to the sustainable development of european island regions by promoting innovation and competitiveness in these regions.
studies must be made in order to determine the levels of energy supplies, transport, access to markets, and even the impact of the 2015 refugee wave.
‒ european islands are peripheral regions situated on the eu’s external borders that are particularly vulnerable to challenges that europe is facing, such as demographic trends, globalisation, climate change, energy supply and, especially for southern areas, exposure to increasing migration flows.
given the high potential of islands for the production of energy from renewable sources due to their specific exposure to wind, tidal and sunlight, european islands can become important sources of alternative energy.
the islands can contribute to strengthening sustainable development in the union, guaranteeing their energy autonomy and energy at prices more accessible to the inhabitants.
these generate economic, social and environmental disparities for island areas, making access for tourists and economic operators more difficult.
the islands are also particularly vulnerable to the challenges facing europe today, including migration flows, demographic trends (depopulation), climate change, energy supply.
at the same time, these regions have great potential for wind, solar and wave energy, as well as for tourism, in addition to the traditional sectors of agriculture, livestock and fisheries.
in this context, in line with the union's objective of reducing regional disparities, the commission is invited, through this motion for a resolution, to take the necessary measures to support the balanced development of the regions concerned, in particular by supporting intermodal transport, investments in digital infrastructure, investments in education, the creation of an 'islands office' within dg regio and the development of coherent development strategies for island areas, involving local, regional and national authorities, as well as other relevant actors from civil society, the economy and the social environment.
it is important to know how the ec is going to support regional and local authorities in order to strengthen their role and impact in managing esi funds, with the aim of creating economic growth and sustainable jobs.
‒ the eu cohesion policy between 2014 and 2020 continues to serve as the main investment instrument that covers all regions of the eu, creating sustainable growth, supporting the creation of jobs, entrepreneurship and innovation at local and regional economies level.
we draw attention to the challenges faced by local and regional authorities, such as globalisation, climate change, energy security, migration flows and increasing urbanisation, taking into account that each region has specific needs and characteristics.
the international community must provide military protection and assistance to particularly vulnerable groups targeted by isis/daesh and other terrorist organisations in the middle east, such as ethnic and religious minorities, and the participation of these groups in finding sustainable political solutions.
as you know, romania and austria were the first to put this to the council and subsequently asked the commission to prepare a strategy for the danube region by the end of 2010. the strategy of this macro-region of fourteen eu member states aims to address the common challenges of these countries, namely the need for increased mobility, energy sources and energy efficiency in the region, water quality and socio-economic development.
i have always been in favour of rail transport and for transport and a single european transport system that is sustainable and sustainable, as it is infrastructure-based.
transportation also means cost and pollution, cost to business people.
let's not forget those industries in european countries that no longer exist and that have disappeared as a result of a hostile economic environment in europe.
in this regard, a strategy is needed to ensure sustainable growth, especially in the context of economic and financial turbulence in some emerging economies, which is leading to new strategic challenges for the european union.
it is the union's common responsibility to ensure a free and independent environment in which media institutions can operate.
and finally, i would like to underline that the economic policy mix to be implemented by the eu, the euro area and by the individual member states in 2016 needs to strengthen the recent economic recovery while addressing structural challenges and contributing to a long-term strategy for sustainable growth.
the economic policy mix to be put in place in 2016 by the eu, the euro area and each member state must be able to build on the recent economic recovery, while also addressing structural challenges and contributing to a long-term strategy for sustainable growth.
the europe 2020 strategy underwent a mid-term review and was reconfirmed by the european parliament and the commission as the overarching framework that can deliver smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the eu.
besides the lower-than-desired percentage of economically-active women and youth unemployment above 20% , most worrying is the number of long-term unemployed, which has doubled in recent years, translating into a serious risk of poverty and social exclusion in our societies and the regrettable waste of human capital.
this is driven by positive factors such as the continuously falling price of energy, which contributes to the increase in purchasing power, where it has an impact on the real economy.
‒ i strongly believe that in order to strengthen the europe 2020 strategy's role in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, steps must be taken to ensure that its objectives, in particular those of a social nature, are equally reflected in all the instruments of the semester, including the country-specific recommendations.
the potential for the eu’s trade agreements to deliver improvements in human rights and environmental standards must be fully realised.
i am strongly in favour of starting a discussion on key global issues such as human rights, security, development and protection of the environment with australia and new zealand.
of course the agreement will have to be comprehensive, respect our sensitives, notably in the agricultural sector, and include an ambitious trade and sustainable development chapter.
i have voted for this motion for a resolution that should open the negotiations for a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand addressing investment, trade in goods and services, e-commerce, public procurement, energy, state owned enterprises, competition, anti-corruption and other regulatory issues.
‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution on compatible systems of identification and registration requirements for dogs, cats and wild animals kept as pets that should reduce illegal trading, thus protecting public and animal health and biodiversity.
as the commission has pointed out in its communication, this development could have a very strong impact on a large number of fields ranging from health and food security to resource efficiency, energy, intelligent transport systems and so on, but it also represents an enormous economic potential for companies, the creation of new jobs and the development of new business models.
after this year's local elections, all mayors, local councillors and county councillors must focus all their energy on accessing this funding.
for the good functioning of this project, it is extremely important to identify and analyse the needs and costs, from purchasing to supplying schools, so that each school, especially those in disadvantaged areas, receives the necessary quantity without waste.
supplying disadvantaged regions with those with high production potential is an important step towards ensuring that children are raised in a healthy environment that is conducive to our future generations and a viable and strong population.
member states shall choose the products to be distributed or to be included in accompanying educational measures on the basis of objective criteria such as health and environmental considerations, seasonality, variety and availability of local or regional products.
member states may in particular encourage local or regional purchasing, organic products, short supply chains or environmental benefits.
at the same time, they consider that efficient port services are essential for the performance of maritime ports in the trans-european transport network ten-t. in this respect, i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the ten-t needs to be made more efficient, interconnected and sustainable by creating a framework that improves the performance of all ports and helps them to cope with changing transport and logistics requirements.
‒ it is very important to make the ten-t more efficient, interconnected and sustainable by creating a framework to improve the performance of ports and help them cope with changing transport and logistics requirements.
‒ the commission’s proposal seeks to contribute to the goal of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network through the creation of a framework which should improve the performance of ports and help them to cope with changes in transport and logistics requirements.
in order to address the challenges facing the maritime transport sector, such as inefficiencies in the logistics chain and sustainable transport, it is essential that the measures set out in the commission communication 'ports: an engine for economic growth' be implemented in parallel with this regulation.
it is clear that fighting fraud and ensuring a transparent environment ensures that organised crime is reduced and citizens' trust in public institutions is increased, while protecting the eu's financial interests by increasing its competitiveness on the world market.
i will go back to the role of the humanitarian aid in a moment from a political and also from a security point of view, but we also prepared two packages, two compacts as we call them, one for jordan and one for lebanon, which comprise not only financial support, but also some measures that can support these countries in the effort of integrating syrian refugees into the host communities, giving children education, giving young women and men job opportunities, and also making it sustainable for the communities in jordan and in lebanon to sustain this effort in the mid-term period.
the decisive fight against irregular migration, smugglers and traffickers of migrants, and the securing of europe's external borders, must be combined with a sustainable common asylum policy and a strong european policy on legal migration.
‒ pollution is one of the most pressing issues of this century, and measures to reduce the amount of substances that contribute to it are of immediate importance.
moreover, the outlook for european legislation must be to find new ways of preventing pollution.
‒ the european security strategy a secure europe in a better world identifies environmental degradation as a risk factor for contemporary society.
since the quality of the environment has strong effects on human activity and health, and natural disasters can produce humanitarian crises and major migratory flows, it is necessary to comply with the rules governing the use of various pollutants, such as sulphur dioxide from the burning of various liquid fuels.
‒ i have voted for this report that aims to reduce the emissions of sulphur dioxide as a result of combustion of certain types of liquid fuels and thereby to reduce the negative effects of such emissions on man and the environment.
these reductions in emissions will be achieved by imposing limits on the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels as a condition for their use within the territory of the member states.
emissions from shipping from the combustion of marine fuels with high sulphur content contribute to air pollution with sulphur dioxide and particulate matter, which are harmful to human health and the environment and contribute to acid deposition.
in the absence of the measures laid down in this directive, emissions from maritime transport would soon have been higher than emissions from all land-based sources.
in accordance with the existing guidelines on state aid for environmental protection, member states may grant state aid to operators affected by this directive, including aid for the modernisation of existing vessels, provided that such aid is considered compatible with the internal market.
i have voted for this report that should supply medicines at sustainable low prices to poor and developing countries in the fight against major diseases.
it is also important that an assessment be made from the very beginning of the proceedings, taking into account the degree of maturity and the family, social and economic environment in which the minor has developed.
this includes among others: refugee and migration crisis, efsi, economic growth, youth employment initiative, child guarantee (poverty), climate change, payment crisis, refugee facility for turkey.
these include the refugee and migration crisis, the european fund for strategic investments, economic growth, the youth employment initiative, the child guarantee (against poverty), climate change, late payments, the facility for refugees in turkey, etc.
‒ i believe the interinstitutional agreement is balanced but we must continue to push for the cost of non-europe (social, environment etc.)
impact assessments are a tool to help not a substitute for political decisions within the democratic process, and must include social and environmental impacts as well as economic ones.
i believe that impact assessments need to be comprehensive and balanced and should assess, inter alia, the costs borne by producers, consumers, workers and administrators and the environmental costs that are generated by the failure to adopt the necessary legislation.
however, additional protection of agreements with the social partners is required, as well as a change in impact studies to include the social, economic and environmental dimensions, alongside the regulation of areas that are not currently included in the european legislative pillar.
i believe that although the agreement has been useful, changes in the market and regulatory environment mean it is no longer the best means to continue the fight against illicit tobacco.
this changed environment calls for new solutions.
the vote will take place on thursday, 10 march 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by françoise grossetête, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on veterinary medical products (com(2014)0558 – c8-0164/2014 – 2014/0257(cod)) (a8—0046/2016), and – the report by claudiu ciprian tănăsescu, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on authorisation and supervision of veterinary medicinal products (com(2014)0557 – c8-0142/2014 – 2014/0256(cod)) (a8-0035/2016).
as a result of the broad support received within the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, parliament should be fully involved in the process of setting the agency's fees through the ordinary legislative procedure, as was recently done for the legislation on fees for pharmacovigilance.
the proposed measures include limiting and controlling the use of antibiotics in animal treatment, but also creating a favourable environment for investment in research and development of new medicines and more.
i believe the commission must ensure that the framework for a data-driven economy is legally sound, respecting data protection standards, yet flexible enough to adapt to the changing environment of digital markets.
we also call for the creation of a future-proof regulatory environment that reflects the changing nature of the market, is technology-neutral, stimulates the creation of new businesses and the entry of new operators, ensures a level playing field and fair competition, while avoiding the burden of excessive regulation and ensuring full compliance with data protection and privacy rules.
the principles of merit, depoliticization, accountability and transparency in the administration must be put into practice through sustained efforts, all the more so as the internal climate in montenegro is polarised.
i truly hope that all political forces, in government and opposition alike, will re-engage in sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation within the montenegrin parliament.
we need a deep reform of financial regulation and supervision to ensure sustainable and job-creating growth in the european union.
they keep looking for money to maintain their activities, and so we should also look at the financing of ngos, because financing for at least three years would help their projects become more sustainable.
mr president, i can only agree with the view of the report on what a well-regulated single market should look like: one that avoids unnecessary legislation and bureaucracy, but also one that does not lack ambition and does not compromise on environmental protection, health and safety, consumer protection and social standards; one that recognises the importance of better implementation and enforcement of existing rules instead of creating new legislation before the old has even been tested; one that provides for an environment where competition can thrive and can lead to more growth and more jobs; one that does not lag behind in new emerging economic areas but provides for a strong development platform for the companies of the digital economy; and ultimately one that is able to secure the long-term growth of the european union for the benefit of its citizens.
the commission’s regulatory fitness and performance programme will also play a central role in simplifying the body of existing legislation and reducing unnecessary regulatory burdens, especially for microenterprises and small and medium enterprises, and we will do so without weakening any of our important social and environmental goals.
the rural environment is the main driver of economic development and therefore agricultural education must be an important component of vocational and technical education programmes at european level.
furthermore, the simple fact that some 36 stocks in the atlantic are now operating at maximum sustainable yield shows that large-scale fleets can also fish in a sustainable way whilst producing a lot of added value and social benefits.
i am convinced that such a further relaxation would backfire both in terms of economic viability and environmental protection.
a successful cfp is the best possible way to ensure the environmental, economic and social sustainability of eu fisheries and coastal areas.
as you know, almost 64% of the world's waters remain outside the scope of the convention on the law of the sea, so the protection of the environment, marine biodiversity and the sustainable exploitation of resources are not covered by this convention, which is over thirty-five years old, which applies the principle of freedom of the seas in a world where things have changed, where the economy is diversified, the need for food and resources of the population is very different.
as regards marine protected areas, they cannot be successful unless there is coordination and collaboration between all areas of activity and unless they are set out in an overall logic of biodiversity protection.
restructuring tax havens, paying tax instead of making profit and supporting the economic environment can be mechanisms through which we can solve this situation.
these agreements must be in line with world trade organisation (wto) obligations, support regional integration and promote the progressive integration of acp economies into the regulated international trading system, thereby encouraging their sustainable development and contributing to the overall effort to eradicate poverty and improve living conditions in acp states.
‒ fisheries is an important economic sector that requires responsible and sustainable policies.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the new protocol offers significant economic benefits to both parties, being an important pillar in the development of sustainable fisheries policies, including the regulation of responsible exploitation in the greenland area.
provision is also made for a pilot fisheries programme for species not covered by the protocol and for scientific cooperation in the field of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
it strengthens cooperation between the eu and greenland and promotes a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources, including through financial support (sectoral support) for the implementation of programmes, in particular for enhanced monitoring and combating of illegal fishing, as well as the support of the local fisheries sector, including the generation of local employment opportunities.
these sustainable fisheries agreements with non-eu countries are negotiated and concluded by the commission on behalf of the eu.
the implementation of this agreement, which supports sustainable development and jobs and combats illegal fishing, deserves to be supported.
‒ the report on fisheries issues under the international agreement on marine biodiversity in the areas outside national jurisdiction highlights the need for a comprehensive global regime that better addresses fisheries issues.
given that seas and oceans cover 71% of the earth's surface and contain approximately 97% of the planet's water, and the marine environment is home to a significant part of the world's biodiversity, increased attention is needed to protect and conserve marine biodiversity.
it is also recommended that a legally binding international instrument be established under unclos for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction.
i welcome the progress made by the un on the issue of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, voting in favour of this report and expressing my continued concern for the conservation of marine habitats and the sustainable development of this area.
‒ given that the european union plays an important role on the international fisheries scene, but also that the oceans play a fundamental role in many of the earth's systems, including the climate, and are the framework for many human activities such as fishing, energy production, transport and trade, i support and reinforce the rapporteur's idea of including fisheries in this new instrument.
‒ blue growth has to be one of our main priorities, as pressure on the sustainability and conservation of marine biodiversity is constantly increasing.
the potential for growth and jobs is enormous and should be used within the ecological limits of the marine environment.
fisheries and aquaculture play an important role in the marine economy, but we must be determined in tackling the environmental problems and the need for sustainable development.
i am therefore in favour of an international approach in order to manage pollution, human activities and increasing dangers to marine biodiversity.
responsible fisheries and aquaculture are key to sustainable development and a healthy marine eco-system; fishing must be integrated into this vision of the future of the sea that is blue growth.
‒ nowadays, marine activities are developing and multiplying at a fast rate, with the pressure on marine biodiversity constantly increasing.
‒ in order to tackle pollution and increasing dangers to marine biodiversity the un published a paper addressing the importance of protected waters of the world during the rio de janeiro un conference on environment and development that took place on 3-14 june 1992. i have voted for this report that stresses the need for a comprehensive global regime to better address the issue of conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity.
as regards marine protected areas, they cannot be successful unless there is coordination and collaboration between all areas of activity and unless they are set out in an overall logic of protecting marine biodiversity.
i voted in favour of the nicolai report on fisheries issues under the international agreement on marine biodiversity in outermost areas - un convention on the law of the sea and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work.
fishing has intensified recently, but so have related marine activities, and therefore the pressure on sustainability and the conservation of marine biodiversity is continuously increasing.
i am pleased that the un general assembly and the ad hoc working group have managed, despite strong opposition, to make progress on the issue of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, with the intention of creating a legally binding international instrument.
‒ fishing is a fast-growing economic activity, both at european and global level, which can generate sustainable development for society and, by implication, stable jobs.
the development of this activity must, however, take account of the conservation of marine biodiversity and limit pollution and other adverse phenomena that may occur in the maritime space.
these are, first, the un convention on the law of the sea, adopted in 1982, and, on the basis of that document, the international agreement on marine biodiversity in the areas beyond national jurisdiction, including fisheries issues, adopted in 1995. by 2017, it is expected that binding instruments on fishing activities in international maritime space will be adopted.
the sustainable development of the world's fisheries is one of the important resources for achieving healthy economic growth, generating jobs and food for the society of the future.
the un addressed the importance of protecting the world's waters in the document called agenda 21, published following the un conference on environment and development held in rio de janeiro in 1992. it demonstrated that there was a recognition at international community level of the need for an international approach to manage pollution and the increasing threats to marine biodiversity.
current zootechnical legislation promotes free trade in breeding animals and their genetic material, taking into account the sustainability of breeding programmes and the conservation of genetic resources.
the purpose of the proposed regulation is to establish uniform rules on trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products, with a view to promoting sustainable breeding programmes for the improvement of breeds and the conservation of genetic biodiversity of domestic animals.
i am satisfied with the fact that we managed to secure the social dialog and role of social partners and consumer, environmental, social, health and safety standards.
‒ better regulation must result in the best possible quality of european legislation, meeting the expectations of citizens and stakeholders and ensuring that public policy objectives, including those relating to consumers, the environment and social and safety standards, are not compromised.
the quality of legislation should be the only appropriate benchmark and the refit programme should not be used to undermine the sustainability of social, labour, environmental or consumer standards.
references to consumer, social and environmental objectives are set as criteria to guide fitness checks, impact assessments and evaluation processes of current and future eu legislation.
however, we need to re-balance further the accent on slimmer eu legislation and members states’ prerogatives with due consideration of the advantage of harmonised and solid eu rules on social, workers’, consumer and environmental standards.
the report voted on today therefore refers to legislating and improving the functioning of the single market by reducing unnecessary regulations in the field of the environment, consumer safety, etc.
reducing bureaucracy also ensures a strong economic environment that supports innovation, production and trade, with the aim of creating new jobs and increasing european economic competitiveness.
whether we are talking about better regulation, subsidiarity or proportionality, we must understand that the success of the european market lies in balancing the need for simplification with the maintenance of standards for consumers, employees and, not least, the environment.
improving the regulation of the single market means ensuring a competitive regulatory environment that supports employment and businesses in europe.
the grouping of programmes into a single concept, erasmus+, and the effects of the economic crisis that have been felt since 2008 have revealed a structural deficit of mobility programmes in terms of the relationship between training and employment, so it is very clear that differences in the design of courses and study programmes, the organisation and management of study centres, the relationships between education systems and the business environment increase the complexity, costs and difficulty of operating mobility between countries and regions in europe.
digital and green economy, energy, etc.).
in this respect, the report adopted today promotes mobility in vocational and technical education through the erasmus+ programme and other instruments, which is beneficial as it increases the inclusion of young people in society, strengthens their ability to work in a multicultural environment and, not least, allows them to acquire knowledge about the eu.
unfortunately, there is a very large difference in the design of courses and study programmes, while the organisation and management of educational centres and the business environment increase above all the costs and operational difficulties in developing mobility between countries and regions in europe.
‒ coastal fishing is a very important form of fishing in the eu member states, and is of particular importance because it provides a high degree of employment and is an ecologically and socially sustainable fishing activity.
it guarantees a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
coastal fishing guarantees a high level of employment in coastal areas and generally represents a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
‒ coastal fishing, classified and defined differently in each member state, is an extremely important form of fishing in eu countries that guarantees a high level of employment that is socially and environmentally sustainable.
‒ coastal fishing represents an exceptionally important form of fishing in eu countries guaranteeing a high level of employment that is socially and environmentally sustainable.
to avoid this negative trend, the economies of coastal areas can be diversified and strengthened through the european maritime and fisheries fund, allowing better commercial exploitation of the products of these regions and promoting scientific research on biodiversity in these areas, which can serve as a model for other regions.
the eu is the world's largest market for fishery products, has one of the largest fleets under its flags and is among the top three catching powers, and the best strategy to achieve the objective of promoting sustainable fisheries is to use the eu's influence on the international stage to be able to improve standards of transparency and fisheries management, to encourage competition at the top level at the expense of competition at the bottom.
i voted for greater transparency in the fishing activities of all the relevant actors and for supporting the eu's objective of promoting sustainable fishing.
‒ it is important for europe and its involvement in environmental protection to support cooperation between local and regional authorities and associations of entrepreneurs, fisheries and oceanography research institutes, universities, technology centres and local and regional institutions to participate in the innovation process, as development and innovation can play a fundamental role in job creation in island and coastal communities.
i believe we have to improve transparency in fishing activities and support regional approach to fisheries management, including promoting the harmonisation of conditions of access for foreign fleets to third countries’ eezs (exclusive economic zones) and the development of a sustainability framework for joint ventures as part of the implementation of sfpas.
the external dimension of the common fisheries policy has to be among our priorities for fisheries policy like promoting sustainable fishing in third countries, ensuring that fishery products imported into the eu are produced under acceptable labour and human rights standards, keeping up pressure on states to combat iuu fishing and enhancing controls.
its objective is to promote sustainable fisheries on the international stage.
to maintain its global competitiveness in the fisheries sector, the eu generally calls for certain management and transparency standards in the sector, as well as harmonisation of access conditions, development of a sustainable framework, combating illegal fishing, ensuring decent working conditions and human rights, and promoting the involvement of women in the sector.
i will name three of them: energy security, which was mentioned just now; our relations with asean, which was mentioned in a previous speech and intervention – i am just back, before being in japan for the g7, from jakarta, where we had an excellent meeting with the asean secretariat for the member states, deciding precisely to proceed on upgrading our relationship to a strategic one; and thirdly, the work we do with the sahel, which is key to our security; it is key to our management of the refugee and migrant flows, and it is key to economic development and global issues as such.
the uk on that occasion put forward an idea for economic compacts for lebanon and jordan, with creative ideas on how to make the fact that jordan and lebanon are hosting so many refugees, either in refugee camps or in host communities, sustainable in the mid-term.
in parallel with observing the ceasefire and engaging in negotiations, it is necessary to create an environment that is conducive to progress.
actions and statements which could further complicate the already complex environment have to stop.
it is clear that a sustainable solution can only exist after the cessation of the use of armed force and the return of the parties to the table of dialogue.
i would like to echo mr karim’s words, which i find very wise: that while we are there to facilitate, to help, to accompany and to try and find a sustainable solution and sustainable compromise, at the end of the day only the political will of the parties themselves will move things towards a peaceful settlement.
this is also part of our efforts: creating a conducive environment, or trying to prevent the environment from becoming disruptive, is also part of our job.
i believe the arab awakening should have told us something about this – that security must be sustainable, and sustainable security cannot be achieved through security and defence instruments alone.
it requires development, governance, civil society support, climate action and much more.
we cannot stabilise our immediate neighbourhood if we do not look at the sahel, the horn of africa and central asia, and our stabilisation efforts must account both for the roles played by other global players in these regions and for global causes of instability, such as climate change.
this includes building up our defence and doing so in a cooperative manner; making our intelligence services work together; working against radicalisation in our societies; monitoring hybrid threats; strengthening our energy security, cyber capacities and strategic communications; and preserving the schengen system with new asylum rules.
we need to support effective and democratic institutions, protect the space of civil society and promote it, address countries of transit and origin of migration, promote socio-economic development, fight climate change and promote energy transitions.
this was a year of important achievements for the international community, from the iranian deal to the sustainable development goals, to cop21.
i began by saying that our environment has never been so dangerous.
the areas of education, the rule of law and the environment have been given particular attention.
this would be possible with the necessary development of a reliable investment climate which calls for, on their side, more work in the fight against corruption, developing interconnections with the international business community and further regional integration.
i welcome the revision of the central asia strategy, the fact that education and sustainable and inclusive economic development are priorities of the strategy, and the 56% increase in assistance by 2020. i stress the importance and necessity of cooperation with the states of the region in preventing and combating terrorism.
a more sustainable legal and budgetary framework should be envisaged in order to allow for humanitarian aid within the union to be mobilised in the future, when circumstances so require; such emergency funding, meant at responding to crises and unforeseen situations, should by its very nature be covered by special instruments and be counted outside the mff ceilings.
i have voted for this report that brings a more sustainable budgetary and legislative framework that would allow humanitarian aid within the eu in the future.
i have voted for this report that will build a more sustainable legal and budgetary framework that will allow humanitarian aid to be mobilised within the union in the future.
in the future, a more sustainable legal and budgetary framework should be provided to allow humanitarian aid to be mobilised within the union when circumstances so require.
the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years.
members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years.
the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years.
members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years.
the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years.
members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years.
the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years.
members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years.
the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years.
members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years.
moreover, the withdrawal of that substance from the market and the control of weeds by mechanical means would cause climatic disturbances as a result of the release of gases from agricultural machinery into the air, which would greatly exacerbate the phenomenon known as the 'greenhouse effect'.
the objection opposes the draft measure on the grounds that the draft implementing act fails to ensure a high level of protection of both human and animal health and the environment, fails to apply the precautionary principle, is therefore not compatible with the aim and the content of the basic instrument, and exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1107/2009.
the objection also fails to ensure a high level of protection of both human and animal health and the environment, fails to apply the precautionary principle, and is therefore not compatible with the aim and the content of the basic instrument.
the european parliament's motion for a resolution refers in particular to the precautionary principle and the need to ensure a high level of protection of health and the environment.
energy security can also play a fundamental role in the development of the union, complementing the european objectives of re-industrialisation and economic growth.
i advocate an eu that is a real international actor capable of shaping the developments and dealing with a rapidly changing global environment and mounting security challenges.
‒ i believe that the eu is an important international actor which has the capacity to deal with a changing global environment and numerous challenges to our security.
‒ given the ever increasing volatile regional security environment i support this timely resolution, as it emphasises the urgency of setting out a shared eu global strategy.
we want an eu that is a real international actor able to shape the developments and deal with a rapidly changing global environment and mounting security challenges.
the vote in favour of the report on the eu in a changing global environment underlines that human security, the defence of peoples, societies and values must be at the heart of the european union's strategy.
the interest must be in the human rights situation, democracy, but also in the sustainability and prosperity of the countries of central asia, so that they become strong regions, capable of responding to the current difficulties.
the region is seen as acquiring a strategic importance in terms of diversification of energy supplies, security and counter-terrorism.
i support the eu’s deeper engagement with the central asian states, where important security and energy interests lie.
‒ i believe that the eu should engage more with central asian states, mostly in terms of security, counter-terrorism and energy.
i also supported this report because i also consider the potential contribution of the european community to the countries of central asia in terms of human rights, democracy, education, freedom of the press, gender equality, the environment.
‒ central asia has a strategic importance in terms of diversification of energy supplies and counter-terrorism.
therefore, i support the report and the eu’s deeper engagement with the central asian states, where important security and energy interests lie.
‒ the central asian region is of particular importance to the european union from the perspective of economic potential, energy diversification, as well as geostrategic and security interests.
in the current volatile european security environment, the report on the use of passenger name record (pnr) data is absolutely necessary, as its central objective is to establish a mechanism to improve the security of eu citizens and member states.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate you on the energy you have invested in the dossier on bosnia and herzegovina.
the sustainable development goals - sure, there are 17, the rapporteur said - but we have to see the results.
however, there are other areas in which the private sector’s expertise and effectiveness are needed, such as climate change.
‒ protection against unlawful acquisition, disclosure and use of trade secrets is key to allowing a fair commercial environment for businesses.
i welcome the rapporteur's proposal that future measures to be taken by the member states should ensure a fair balance between the protection of trade secrets and the freedom to conduct a business, between freedom of expression and freedom of information, with a focus on fundamental citizens' rights (public security, consumer protection, public health or environmental protection).
in order to support the structural and organisational reforms aimed at achieving greater efficiency, environmental sustainability, and effectiveness, i voted in favour of the report.
i support the call for an immediate ceasefire in south—east turkey and the resumption of the peace process, and urge the turkish government to shoulder its responsibility to resume negotiations for a negotiated, comprehensive and sustainable solution to the kurdish issue.
the success of the reform process depends on the existence of a democratic political environment.
to secure the sustainability of the integration process all political parties need to cooperate and work constructively together.
i believe the commission and the member states must make more efforts to reach the anti-poverty targets, and that a minimum income scheme above the 60% national median income in all member states, a european energy observatory and a winter heating disconnection moratorium are essential tools in this respect.
moreover, i believe financially vulnerable households need better protection against energy poverty and more support to improve their energy efficiency.
i therefore support the call for a winter heating disconnection moratorium, to prevent energy cuts during winter months in case of financially vulnerable households, the call for an eu summit dedicated to the reduction of poverty and the support for a stronger role for consumers and for stronger consumer protection.
disadvantaged households need better protection against energy poverty.
‒ i have voted for this report that aims to build bridges between energy policy and social policy in a european debate by stressing that the eu is getting further from the eu 2020 anti-poverty target.
this is contrary to the eu's strategic objective set out in the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to reduce by 20 million the number of people affected or threatened by poverty and social exclusion by 2020. in this perspective, this report establishes a link between energy poverty and general poverty and highlights that this is the result of a number of underlying conditions, including high energy prices, health and disability issues, the type of heating system used in homes and the quality and energy performance of the housing stock.
the report proposes as a solution the provision of microcredit or low-interest loans, for example through the european investment bank, to low-income households to support their investments in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
another proposed aspect is to increase investment in energy efficiency in social housing through european funds and to guarantee access to adequate housing for all, especially the most disadvantaged.
i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that promoting private initiative in developing countries creates an attractive environment for investment.
‒ there is a need to identify new sustainable and effective instruments to invest in the growth and development of people and businesses, with industrialisation as a driver of well-being and development.
the new agenda should aim at eradicating poverty in all its forms and at achieving sustainable development in a balanced and integrated manner.
the creation of an enabling environment and their retention in the formal economy is a priority.
‒ in the context of aid resources declining and new global challenges, such as climate change, the private sector will play a key role since these donors can bring innovation, expertise and effectiveness in development policy.
‒ i have voted for this report that will engage european and international enterprise sectors in order to achieve sustainable development in areas such as agriculture, land tenure and property rights, sustainable energy and green sectors, education, healthcare and sanitation.
f4energy is a special case, shall we say.
however, the scope of the edf is to tackle the root causes of migration by supporting sustainable development, and focusing it on addressing existing migration flows would send out a false signal and may lead to a misappropriation of funds.
on the use of tsi (technical specification for interoperability), simplifying the long and costly authorisation procedures for rolling stock, energy and infrastructures, and ensuring vehicle interoperability in the eu through a european vehicle authorisation, to be granted by the european railways agency (era), and the creation of a european register.
‒ i voted in favour of the report, which aims to update interoperability rules in response to the new needs arising from the opening of the market and the expected growth of rail as a mode of transport, notably by clarifying existing rules on the use of tsi (technical specifications for interoperability), energy and infrastructures, and ensuring vehicle interoperability in the eu through a european vehicle authorisation, to be granted by the european railways agency (era), and the creation of a european register.
‒ a large majority of european citizens are directly or indirectly affected by serious cases of manipulation of interest rate benchmarks such as libor and euribor, exchange rate benchmarks and energy or oil indices.
through better application of ex-ante controls and a thorough assessment of the social, environmental and financial sustainability of major projects carried out in third countries, the european union can strengthen its role as a global player.
i highlighted the need to avoid that security and climate change expenditure erodes oda and to ensure that payments appropriations are put at sufficient levels.
i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the court of auditors' special report no 16/2015 entitled 'further efforts are needed to improve the security of energy supply by developing the internal energy market' highlights elements of major importance for the member states and the eu.
in the context of regional instability and the use of energy as a tool of political coercion, i would like to stress the importance of diversification, security of supply and accessibility.
it would therefore be appropriate for member states and the eu to increase investment in energy infrastructure and ensure the regulation of the energy market, with a view to the establishment of the internal energy market.
however, the scope of the edf is to tackle the root causes of migration by supporting sustainable development: focusing it on addressing existing migration flows would send out a false signal and might lead to a misappropriation of funds.
‒ in the context of recent crises, energy has often been used as a tool of political coercion, which is why i would like to stress the importance of cooperation at the level of member states' regulators in order to ensure security of supply and increase the resilience of energy infrastructures.
i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
to keep our food safe, our environment clean or our planes and flights safer and more secure.
i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) calling for a more vigilant discharge stance, asking the commission to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and which are at high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before expenditure is declared and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
i have voted for this report on the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer) discharge, that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with a high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
‒ i voted in favour of the related 2014 discharge for the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
in the context of a rapidly developing civil aviation sector, the agency should have the financial, material and human resources necessary to successfully fulfil its regulatory and executive tasks in the areas of safety and environmental protection, without compromising its independence and impartiality.
‒ noting the final annual accounts of the european environment agency and the favourable opinion of the court of auditors and welcoming the legality and regularity of the transactions carried out by the agency, i voted in favour of the report drawn up by the committee on budgetary control on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the european environment agency (eea), which calls for a more vigilant approach to discharge by the commission, asking it to check more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex-ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility on unused appropriations.
i have voted for this report on european environment agency (eea) discharge that calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to control more frequently areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante controls, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations could be used for new priorities.
‒ as vice-president of the committee on budgetary control, in the light of the court of auditors' report, i support the closure of the accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. we call on the agency to strictly apply the measures on discretion and exclusion in public procurement, carrying out appropriate substantive checks in all cases, and to apply the exclusion criteria to remove companies in case of any conflict of interest, as this is essential to protect the financial interests of the union.
the eit helps businesses, education and research organisations to work together to create an environment conducive to innovation and entrepreneurship in europe.
the institute faced uncertainties regarding its annual budget for 2014 due to the negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework and horizon 2020 that took place throughout 2013. the eit adopted a set of principles in march 2015 setting the maximum contribution of the eit to the kics, which will be reduced from 100% funding after the first 10 years of their operation to 80% in year 11 and thereafter as follows: 60% in year 12, 40% in year 13, 20% in year 14 and 10% in year 15. the institute will also continue to monitor the progress of the knowledge and innovation communities towards financial sustainability and take the necessary corrective actions.
the provisions of the resolution underline the importance of the agency in maintaining maritime safety, preventing pollution from ships in europe and assisting member states and the commission under international and union law.
‒ the european training foundation operates in a dynamic environment which requires a high level of flexibility, constant updating and adjustment of its activities to support partner countries.
parliament also welcomed the development of an interactive online risk assessment tool and the agency's efforts, through the healthy workplaces campaign, to strengthen risk prevention and promote sustainable and healthy workplaces.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for integrated information systems in different application sectors, with the aim of enhancing the union's competitiveness and sustainability and facilitating the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
we invite the court of auditors to include in future reports information on the implementation of the budget for fp7 and, separately, the budget for horizon 2020. the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, established by regulation in 2008, has demonstrated the potential of hydrogen as an energy carrier and fuel cells as energy converters to pave the way for clean systems that will reduce emissions, increase energy security and stimulate the economy.
‒ i backed this report, as agreed in the committee, granting discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
i voted in favour of this 2014 general discharge report on the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, which calls for a more vigilant discharge position of the commission, calling on it to monitor more frequently the areas where money has been allocated and where there is a high risk of error, to focus on ex ante controls, to work more effectively with member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and to introduce more transparency and flexibility in respect of unused appropriations.
i have voted for this report on the discharge of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, which calls for a more vigilant position on the discharge, asking the commission to more frequently check areas and recipients with high risk of errors, focus on ex-ante checks, collaborate with the member states to correct errors before declaring expenditure and introduce more transparency and flexibility in spending so that unused appropriations can be used for new priorities.
i also welcome the continuing concerns about environmental protection and new instruments to support climate action.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the actions of the european investment bank have led to significant progress in terms of economic development, social development, environmental protection, its efforts having a positive impact on the quality of life of the citizens of the union.
through these actions, we will promote youth employment, innovation and smes, enhance environmental sustainability and climate action, and finally, promote economic and social cohesion and convergence in all member states.
‒ i have voted for this report that calls on the eib to ensure consistency and complementarity with the investments from the european structural and investment funds and other public funds; promote youth employment, innovation and smes; update the external dimension of eib interventions; enhance environmental sustainability and climate action; promote economic and social cohesion and convergence.
moreover, the eib shall prioritise investments to accelerate recovery and enhance productivity, especially by promoting youth employment, innovation and smes or enhancing environmental sustainability and climate action.
it is beneficial for europe to develop multiple agricultural production, in relation to the development of tourism and environmental protection activities and an appropriate structuring of the food chain in mountain areas.
mountain regions face specific terrain challenges, often with access to resources becoming more difficult, with additional transport costs, climate change, no human resources, no vocational training, no infrastructure.
mr president, europe is talking about energy union and energy security.
the best example is the connecting europe facility: energy funding has been cut by over 50%.
energy security without resource security does not exist.
in view of the legality and compliance with the existing european legislation and the eu energy security strategy adopted in may 2014, it is necessary to ensure that european legislation is respected and applied in all segments of the nord stream 2 project and that it is not against the objectives of the energy union.
if some of the large consumers in western europe have certain financial advantages, this should not affect the interests or the degree of development of energy and transit capacity in the east.
on a principle and value level, as long as the european union maintains economic sanctions against russia seeking to gain energy autonomy, nord stream 2 must contribute to the objective of diversification, not dependence on one supplier.
there are many irregularities within the ep, the degree of food waste is absolutely outrageous, and the fact that there is no traceability of fish products consumed in our own institution should make us seriously question the management within the parliament.
the next item is the joint debate on the fisheries partnership agreements: recommendation of mr jarosław wałęsa, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia (13015/2015 c8-0402/2015 2015/0224nle)) (a8-0142/2016) and recommendation of mr gabriel mato, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for by the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania for a period of four years (12715/2015 c8-0402/2015 2015/0224nle)) (a8-0224/2016).
in a country where approximately half of the population lives on the coastline, and where the fisheries sector is an essential part of the economy, it is very important to achieve the objective of developing responsible and sustainable fishing activities while ensuring that the sector reaches its full potential.
but i want to ask you: don't you think that in order to create new jobs and a sustainable economy and, of course, jobs for young people, we should have a different policy for innovation and research?
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that protection against subsidised imports from non-eu countries is absolutely necessary for the sustainable development of the european community and for ensuring fair competition on the market.
‒ the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia lays the foundations for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the rational exploitation of fisheries resources in the liberian fishing zone.
the main purpose of this agreement is to provide fishing opportunities for union vessels in the liberian fishing zone, taking into account the standards of environmental protection, conservation and sound management of fish stocks.
i spoke in favour of this partnership agreement because it promotes a partnership framework that strengthens the links between the union and liberia, favouring the development of sustainable fisheries policies.
failure to act by the eu would allow the emergence of private agreements which would not guarantee sustainable fisheries.
although measures for the protection of the marine environment as well as observer coverage (15%) could be more ambitious, i fully support this very important sfpa.
‒ this is the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and liberia.
the actions undertaken shall take into account the promotion of sustainable fishing in liberian fishing areas and the development of the liberian fisheries sector.
this support meets the aims of national fishing policy and in particular the needs of mauritania as regards supporting scientific and technical cooperation, training, fisheries monitoring, protecting the environment and development infrastructure.
the increase in support for the local mauritanian fishing sector demonstrates the european union’s resolve to bolster the development of the fleets in countries with which it has signed agreements, and its desire to export the model of environmental, economic and social sustainability that it advocates in its fisheries policy.
in addition, financial assistance of eur 16,5 million is provided for the duration of the agreement (eur 4,125 million per year, as opposed to eur 3 million under the previous protocol) to promote sustainable development of the fisheries sector and environmental protection in marine protected areas and coastal areas.
thus, sectoral support was increased to improve european assistance for the implementation of the new sectoral strategy on the sustainable development of fisheries in this country.
these agreements are intended, in addition to increasing the union's marine food resources, to contribute to the sustainable development of this sector worldwide and to economic assistance to developing countries.
the eu has had fisheries agreements with this country since 1989. in july 2015, a new four-year agreement was concluded, allowing eu vessels access to fish for cephalopods, crustaceans, tuna and pelagic species in exchange for the eu contribution of eur 55 million, to which is added eur 16,5 million for the sustainable development of the mauritanian fisheries sector and the protection of the environment.
the 2014-2020 programming period introduces the tools to strengthen cooperation between public and private actors, as well as policies for more sustainable urban development.
given the challenges at regional level, cohesion policy 2014-2020 plays a crucial role in the shift towards investing in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, providing solutions by supporting activities that tackle climate change, promote more efficient energy use and create new jobs for young people.
at the same time, the new iti and dlrc territorial development instruments will provide the prerequisites for sustainable and balanced growth in disadvantaged areas.
the new tools can also be used for delivering the sustainable urban development objective.
integrated territorial investment (iti) and community-led local development (cld) are innovative cohesion policy instruments that some member states will implement in this form for the first time and can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, quality local jobs, sustainable development and the europe 2020 objectives.
in particular, consideration should be given to how isd translates into sustainable job creation and real economic growth.
madam president, i voted for this report because it is in romania's interest that the union invests in the mountain regions and the carpathian mountains, which are in romania, and that is because we want to finance these regions and european money for their development and also for environmental protection.
these regions cover over 30% of the eu territory and contribute to the economic development of the countries, mainly through their specific characteristics, namely the diversity of renewable energy sources.
these mountain areas have a positive impact in terms of combating climate change and conserving and protecting the ecosystems of these territories.
i therefore voted in favour of this report because i am confident that this policy of mountain cohesion will achieve better socioeconomic and territorial cohesion, ensuring the sustainable economic development of the mountains.
i propose an integrated and flexible approach to development and job creation in the green economy, also taking into account new activities in areas such as mountain farming, sustainable tourism, handicrafts, sustainable forestry activities and renewable energy technologies.
for sustainable growth we need strong and developing regions.
this report emphasizes how the mountainous regions of the eu can contribute to its targets, such as europe 2020. the natural resources and assets of these areas can provide jobs to improve employment within the eu, especially green jobs which contribute to the fight against climate change.
the rich variety of renewable energy sources could contribute to the eu’s renewable energy targets.
mountainous regions can also be a leading force in sustainable growth within the eu, as centres of green growth.
at the same time, mountain regions face terrain-specific challenges such as difficult access to resources, cumbersome and costly transport, frequent climate change, a lack of professionally trained human resources, and a lack of infrastructure for community-based services.
as centres of green growth, the mountainous regions should be a leading force in sustainable growth in the european union.
as itre s&d coordinator, i stress the importance of achieving the eu's renewable energy targets and developing energy and communications infrastructure.
‒ mountainous regions in the eu face distinct social, environmental, technical and economic challenges such as depopulation, poor infrastructure and few employment opportunities.
however, as this resolution rightly points out, the natural environment of mountainous regions also offers untapped resources that could be used to create green, environmentally friendly jobs.
such an agenda should earmark funds from, in particular, the european structural and investment funds and set out a plan for how to best tap into the natural resources of mountainous regions to ensure more inclusive, cohesive and sustainable development and growth.
this report highlights how such regions can contribute to eu objectives, especially in the field of renewable energy.
by their abundance and diversity of renewable energy sources and their dependence on energy efficiency and resource use, mountain regions can contribute to the development of new technologies and innovation in general.
the eu is the world's largest donor, but the scale of the problem means that it is no longer enough: global action is needed to reduce the devastating effects of climate change, terrorism and violent conflict.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, the 2030 agenda for sustainable development adopted last september is a major achievement.
the netherlands will also organise a meeting at the end of this month about multi-stakeholder participation, and yes, we consider it of the greatest importance to maintain the indivisible nature of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development with the addis ababa action agenda as an integral part of the 2030 agenda.
the commission will present a new approach to ensuring economic growth as well as social and environmental sustainability beyond the 2020 timeframe, taking into account the europe 2020 review as well as the internal and external aspects of the implementation of the un sustainable development goals.
– madam president, the eu was instrumental in shaping the global 2030 agenda for sustainable development, and i see several of the key players before me here today.
but new york was only the start; and europe has a duty – to itself, and to the international community – to lead in the implementation of the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
we will present to you an initiative in the course of this year on ‘next steps for a sustainable european future’ to map out the eu contribution.
through the europe 2020 strategy, and through a wide range of eu policies, from climate change to skills and innovation, the eu is already delivering on many sdgs.
we need to address all three dimensions of sustainable development – economic, social and environmental.
eradicating poverty, eliminating inequalities and combating climate change are not competing objectives; they go hand in hand.
if we want to be in a position to provide for our parents, our children, for everyone in need, if we really want a sustainable, social model for our societies, we need to move much more quickly to a sustainable economy, to a low-carbon, resource-efficient, circular economy.
madam president, i would first like to say that the epp group was one of the initiators of today's discussion on the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals.
– the sustainable development goals are essential to the objectives that the european union has fixed for its agenda 2030. they represent targets that the member states have to achieve in terms of internal development and assistance for the development of the poorest countries in the world.
i really hope we will not remember the sustainable development goals only at the next un summit where we will have to think about other goals.
the situation today in lebanon and jordan is not sustainable.
it is important, not only because it is a waste of european citizens' money, but also to avoid the continued displacement of palestinian families living in these areas and to ensure that european assistance effectively reaches those in need.
i have voted for this report that extends the exemption until the 31st of december 2020, in order to save commodity dealers from an unstable regulatory environment in the short term.
‒ i supported, in my vote today, the adoption of this report on the extension of derogations from certain provisions of the capital requirements for dealers in goods regulation, as i believe that predictability of legislation is absolutely necessary to ensure a healthy competitive environment.
‒ the term 'commodity trader' is intended to cover a wide range of actors in the energy and commodities markets, as explained in this proposal for a regulation.
the 2014-2020 regulations have introduced several key reforms in the area of cohesion policy, but cohesion policy investments need to be aligned with other areas such as the digital single market, the energy union, social policy, macro-regional strategies, the urban agenda, transport research and innovation, in order to best contribute to the europe 2020 objectives of the member states.
despite the reduction in the flows due to our cooperation with turkey, the sustainability of this reduction still has to be confirmed.
therefore a coherent, coordinated and sustainable common approach to temporary internal border controls, as foreseen in article 29 of the schengen borders code, is needed at eu level.
the economic crisis of recent years has made the people of the european community increasingly aware of the need to create a healthy tax environment in which all taxpayers must pay their taxes in a fair way.
i strongly believe that any decision on mes should be based on a solid and comprehensive impact assessment in order to evaluate the consequences on jobs and sustainable growth in all eu sectors.
together with an overwhelming majority of my colleagues, i therefore call upon the commission to take due account the interests of the eu as a whole and notably the need to defend eu jobs, ensure high environmental standards and promote sustainable economic growth.
‒ and today, over a billion people live in extreme poverty, facing major environmental challenges - two-thirds of the services provided by nature, including fertile land, clean water and clean air, are in decline.
a new europe, ready to respond to the needs and requirements of european citizens for a better life, requires a union policy that keeps pace with the rapidly changing global environment.
partnerships with developing countries and emerging economies foster smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the new sustainable development goals are at the heart of the 2030 agenda agreement.
i support this ep draft resolution as the ambitious and autonomous environmental objectives, with a strong commitment to making sustainability accessible in the target areas, will lead to economic growth, increase energy production and agriculture and restore social balance.
‒ the 230 sustainable development goal indicators represent a good starting point and robust framework intended for follow-up and review of progress towards achieving the 17 sdgs and we must insist on their achievement as much as possible.
finally, i believe the new eu sustainable development strategy and associated implementation policies should be subject to a broad consultation with all stakeholders.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the sustainable development of the european union must be one of the main objectives of the community.
the report voted on today therefore encourages the european institutions and the institutions of the member states to cooperate more closely in the pursuit of economic, social and environmental development.
the agenda 2030 and the sustainable development goals demonstrate great ambition and seek to achieve the goals that the mdgs did not.
i believe cool is needed because consumers want to know where their food comes from, especially as it has environmental and animal welfare consequences; it would force producers to get a greater grip on their supply chain and limit the risk of fraud; it would help restore consumer trust in the food industry.
although these pieces of legislation were considered modern 20 years ago, they are no longer in line with the economic and social climate of the union of today.
trafficking in human beings is the result of global economic and social inequalities, the lack of public awareness of the problems associated with trafficking in human beings perpetuating a permissive environment for the phenomenon, while being exacerbated by societal inequalities.
– you know that climate change is a great threat to our future and it is linked also with migrants coming especially from the sub-saharan area.
i admit i was surprised by your statement about badly spent subsidies - about four hundred billion for cutting emissions.
mr president, the energy union must have at its core an efficient and functioning internal energy market, which ensures the competitiveness of the european economy, growth and jobs, affordable and competitive prices for individual and industrial consumers and the protection of vulnerable consumers.
mr vice-president, i welcome your strong commitment to tackling energy poverty and i believe you agree that future legislative proposals should contain measures in this direction and the s&d group will give you all the necessary support.
together, we need to develop a strong and comprehensive approach to energy poverty, support member states in adopting the best strategies to tackle energy poverty by identifying good practices and sharing information, for example, a better possibility for member states to know what are the best practices at the level of the 28 member states.
local and national regulatory authorities, energy companies play a critical role in ensuring that markets function in a way that does not disadvantage vulnerable consumers by ensuring supply, establishing codes of conduct for market actors and identifying vulnerable consumers by companies.
our common goal should be low energy prices for european households and industry and we need to find long-term solutions to solve these problems.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the energy performance of buildings and the energy performance of buildings, including the cost of energy from renewable sources, and on the energy performance of buildings and buildings in the union.
first, a viable energy union requires secure and reliable sources of supply to achieve a well-integrated and well-connected energy market.
i also stress the geostrategic importance of the black sea region for the eu's energy security, in particular for the development of multilateral energy cooperation in the caspian sea region, the middle east and central asia.
on the other hand, the commission should come up with the necessary legislative proposals to enable consumers to have control over energy costs and to have access to the full real costs of electricity delivered, including those associated with transmission and distribution.
– energy poverty is a real problem that affects also public health.
on the other hand, member states have to take the necessary measures to ensure that all the population has access to energy sources, they do not pay excessive electricity and gas bills, and do not have to choose between basic needs that they can afford to satisfy.
it is not just at eu level, but at national and regional levels as well that we need to see more action with regard to the eradication of energy poverty.
we need transparency in order for the population to make informed choices regarding their energy consumption, and we need as well eu funds to be allocated for energy efficiency and for programmes to support self-generation of energy.
in recent years, the energy sector in europe has undergone significant transformations.
however, over 50 million eu citizens live in energy poverty because there are still elements that prevent consumers from taking full advantage of and having meaningful control over their consumption and thus reducing the amounts on their bills.
a common european approach is needed, aimed at removing imbalances and inequalities in the market, to find sustainable solutions for consumers and for our industry to have access to affordable energy.
at the same time, the role of the consumer needs to change so that he can better and faster access and benefit from energy offers and services, taking advantage of them.
mr president, the classic centralized energy system is a thing of the past.
we're moving towards a decentralized, flexible, efficient, renewable energy-based system.
the commission's communication on the new agreement for energy consumers is based on three pillars: better information for consumers to consume less, both energy and money; also the second pillar: more choice for consumers between heating options, for example, and the third pillar: maintaining the highest level of consumer protection.
we need to look at how we define energy poverty at union level, given that each country has different energy needs, given that the minimum income per capita differs from one country to another, or given that countries define the idea of reasonable costs differently.
i hope that we will find a resolution, as i said, of energy poverty at union level that will bring us to implement this agreement.
‒ this report focuses exclusively on household energy consumers and industrial consumers should be treated in a completely different context.
the ongoing energy transition is leading to a shift from an energy system based on traditional centralised generation to a more decentralised, energy-efficient, but also more flexible and based largely on renewable energy sources.
as regards the costs of switching to a new market structure in certain member states, the report draws the attention of the european commission and invites it to take these costs into account in terms of accessibility and competitiveness, with the ultimate objective of an economy based on 100% renewable energy sources.
i voted in favour of the report on 'new benefits for energy consumers' because i believe that support for new types of energy, in particular renewable energy, is necessary for much better economic development both in the member states and in the eu.
‒ taking into account all the technological developments that have taken place in recent years and the objective of having an economy based on 100% renewable energy sources that europe proposes, i support this report which highlights the need for a new organisation of the energy market.
the european union must be a model for the world in making the internal energy market more efficient and in pursuing a forward-looking climate change policy.
the main beneficiaries of this new energy policy must be citizens, who, through access to new technologies, will be able to reduce their bills and actively participate in the market through the efficient management of energy consumption.
installing heating controls and thermostats can have a significant impact on energy consumption, but only if coupled with a serious housing rehabilitation project that many european cities need.
people will not only save money, but they will make a significant contribution to reducing energy consumption.
‒ as volatility in energy costs can have major repercussions on consumers, it is important that the european union and the member states have a firm policy to decentralise energy systems and increase efficiency and flexibility through the diversification of resources.
reducing monopoly and encouraging citizens' participation, individually or collectively, in the energy market can contribute to the eradication of energy poverty and to consumer protection through the provision of stable, sustainable, affordable energy and energy-efficient products, services and buildings.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the effects of instability in energy policies are felt at the level of the well-being of european citizens.
i have thus expressed the need to put the citizen at the centre of european energy policies, by developing functional energy systems based on collaboration between local authorities, municipalities and citizens.
‒ the report focuses on the consumer perspective of the energy union and the rapporteur has chosen to focus her report on the issues of ensuring the energy market benefits citizens, ensuring an inclusive energy system by empowering consumers to produce their own energy, promoting the development of demand-side management and addressing the causes of energy poverty.
i support the inclusion, in the report, of a call for a definition of energy poverty at eu level, focusing on the idea that access to affordable energy is a basic social right; the request for the commission to prioritise measures to alleviate energy poverty in upcoming legislative proposals and present a dedicated action plan by mid-2017; and the call for a ban on doorstep-selling by energy suppliers/retailers.
considering the urgent need to tackle energy poverty and to challenge big energy suppliers, i voted in favour of the report.
i think we need an energy market that works for the benefit of the citizens.
this has not yet been achieved because in many member states the retail energy market has not led to a decrease in retail prices.
the energy system in the single market must be conducive to social inclusion.
‒ i have voted for this report since i strongly believe that the emphasis in the energy union should fall on european citizens.
europe’s main concern should be on tackling energy poverty and challenging the big energy suppliers.
‒ i voted for the report on new benefits for energy consumers because energy market liberalisation and integration can only be implemented by taking into account the level of real competition on the market and consumers' access, in particular households' access to more than one supplier.
i believe that the phasing out of regulated energy prices for consumers should take into account the actual level of competition on the market in the context of the european union strategy, which should ensure that consumers have access to secure energy prices.
improvements in the level of interconnection of networks should have a positive effect on energy prices for consumers and therefore avoid the transfer of benefits to distribution system operators only.
‒ the report on ‘delivering a new deal for energy consumers’ brought to our attention the scale of the problem of poor access to modern energy services by our most vulnerable category of citizens, in particular those having two jobs, single parents and elderly people.
these alarming findings determine us as policymakers to frame affordable energy as a basic social right, asking for simplified bills that should mention clearly tariffs and offers on the market, banning door-step selling and demanding the end of termination fees when switching to cheaper suppliers.
i voted in favour of this report, which carries on our group’s diligent struggle conveyed in the s&d manifesto - fighting energy poverty.
‒ one of the most important goals of the european union is to achieve an economy based on 100% renewables, which can be achieved only by reducing energy consumption, making full use of the ‘energy efficiency first/first fuel’ principle and prioritising energy savings and demand side measures over the supply in order to achieve our climate goals in line with the paris agreement, energy security, competitiveness and lower consumer bills.
i have voted for this report that should ensure an inclusive energy by empowering citizens to take ownership of the energy transition, produce their own renewable energy and become energy-efficient.
‒ the energy union should put the interests of current and future generations of citizens first and provide citizens with stable, accessible, efficient and sustainable energy, as well as energy-efficient products, buildings and services.
it should also contribute to the eradication of energy poverty, protect consumers against abusive, non-competitive and unfair practices by market actors and enable them to fully exercise their rights.
as s&d itre coordinator, i stress that we need to create favourable conditions to ensure a functioning and competitive internal energy market, providing consumers with choices and transparent and clear access to information.
empowering consumers and enabling them to become actively involved in the energy market by providing them with comprehensive, clear and transparent information about energy prices, suppliers etc.
is key to creating an energy union, which is affordable, fair and inclusive.
implementing the energy transition, that is, the shift towards energy based on efficiency, flexibility and renewables is vital if we want to cut energy consumption.
in this context, i welcome the idea of encouraging, through policy, a behavioural change among citizens, giving them the tools to become ‘prosumers’ who either individually or collectively participate directly in the energy market for example by generating, storing or trading their own renewable energy.
‒ energy poverty remains a serious problem which must be addressed by effective policies.
it should be possible for people to compare prices and switch supplier without incurring penalties in order to take advantage of the internal energy market.
eu policies and structural funds should be more focussed on dealing with energy poverty and supporting important cost-saving measures such as energy efficiency.
‒ the achievement of the energy union is one of the european union's objectives for the period ahead.
energy suppliers currently charge high prices at national level because the common energy market has not yet been achieved and because they still benefit from the high concentration of national markets.
this keeps european consumers captive to large energy monopolies, without the possibility to switch suppliers and benefit from such better prices.
this leads to the idea that there is a 'energy poverty' at european level, which must be tackled by firm action by the european institutions.
a commission action plan is needed to combat this negative phenomenon at union level and to encourage energy efficiency in buildings.
in addition, small unconventional energy producers should not be discriminated against against against large producers within member states.
the european union must be a shield for consumers against the abuses of the big energy producers and suppliers.
in addition, non-tariff barriers that are not justified by proportionality, consumer protection, the environment or workers' rights create market gaps that can be to the detriment of citizens, whose access to certain goods and services becomes unaffordable.
striking a balance between the market economy and social and environmental protection mechanisms could have the effect of tackling unemployment, poverty, inequalities, social exclusion and wage dumping.
economic growth and the promotion of quality jobs must aim at the rapid achievement of a social market economy based on knowledge and sustainable growth, while maintaining an effective system of social protection.
the report will improve the well—being of european citizens by proposing practical measures that need to guarantee equal treatment and social inclusion, creation of sustainable jobs and growth and high level of consumer protection.
i support the call for measures to help smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups, without providing opportunities for dishonest businesses to circumvent existing rules, lower workers’ and consumer standards; concerning refit, i support the introduction of measures which lower the administrative burdens and compliance costs on businesses, and which ensure high standards of consumer, employee, health and environmental protection; moreover, i welcome the inclusion of objective criteria and indicators for a definition of ‘innovative’ start-ups, smes.
we need practical measures which will guarantee growth, the creation of sustainable jobs, equal treatment and social inclusion, and a high level of consumer protection.
unjustified barriers to the single market need to be removed in order to achieve tangible and rapid results in competitiveness, sustainable economic growth, research, innovation, job creation, consumer diversity and new economic models.
‒ the single market strategy must emphasise the social market economy, ensuring social inclusion, delivering high standards of environmental protection and upholding workers’ rights.
in concrete terms, the strategy includes provisions on strengthening the social market economy by ensuring social inclusion, creating sustainable jobs, consumer protection, measures to encourage smes and micro-enterprises, combating tax evasion, environmental protection, development of social economy enterprises, combating the underground economy, facilitating access to the patent system, protecting agricultural products of certified geographical origin.
i welcome the concern expressed by the rapporteur to remove unjustified barriers in the single market, to achieve concrete and rapid results in competitiveness, sustainable economic growth, research, innovation, job creation, diversity for consumers and new economic models.
the sustainable development goals of last year mark a welcome shift from a focus on diseases to a more integrated approach to addressing people’s health needs.
while other international actors have already started to think deeply about the transformation of the cpd into 'policy coherence for sustainable development', the european union has yet to adopt a clear position on this point.
we will not succeed in integrating cpd into the sustainable development goals if the other key development actors - the us, japan, brics - do not join in this effort.
however, a coherent policy management also demands a global framework which can deal with the complexity of the task, to ensure coherence between many factors: global goals and national contexts; international agendas and processes; and between economic, social and environmental policies.
the eu and its global partners have to constantly support an approach based on collaboration, mutual accountability and human rights, in order to ensure that economic, environmental and social progress will be sustainable.
mr president, nuclear disasters kill, they bring many sick generations after them, they destroy the environment and interrupt life.
lithuania rightly accuses belarus of not informing it about the construction of this nuclear power plant, of not completing an environmental impact study, of not informing citizens about the influence on drinking water and many other things.
together with our partners – african governments, the african union commission, the private sector and g7 members – the european union has made a commitment to promoting inclusive and sustainable agriculture-based growth.
this is what we agreed under the 2030 agenda and its second sustainable development goal: to end hunger, achieve food security and improve nutrition and also promote sustainable agriculture.
we want to contribute to job creation, stability, growth and sustainable development.
we are taking very seriously the concerns being voiced that the new alliance creates a favourable environment that mainly benefits large private sector companies to the detriment of the smallholder farmers.
they play a key role in sustainable agriculture and in combating hunger and malnutrition, and they are indeed the ones that should primarily benefit from the new alliance actions.
we need partnerships with the private sector that encourage businesses to put sustainable development at the core of their strategies.
this is particularly relevant for inclusive and sustainable agricultural development.
innovation allows the sector to develop new products, new production methods and services, to respond to challenges like climate change, and to address other societal challenges, particularly in the environment, as well as addressing issues around our competitiveness.
we are all increasingly conscious of the need to ensure food security and of the need for a greater focus on more sustainable food production.
horizon 2020 is the european union’s framework programme for research and innovation and a majority of support for agriculture and forestry, research and innovation, will be granted under societal challenge too, which includes food security, sustainable agriculture and forestry, marine and maritime issues, and inland water research and the bio-economy.
considers it important to develop strategies to prevent and mitigate the negative consequences of agriculture in the european union, through the following measures: an action plan in the most affected areas, the use of plant varieties resistant to the new climate parameters, the adaptation of the agricultural calendar to the new conditions, afforestation, the construction of greenhouses, the management of water resources in agriculture, the greening of polluted land, as well as a future plan to eliminate the causes of climate change by promoting a global economy based on low co2 emissions, coupled with the promotion of energy security.
in this context, i believe that on the one hand it is time for the european union not only to have an integrated policy framework for 2016-2020 on hiv and tuberculosis - as co-infections - but on the other hand, national governments and the european commission have a responsibility to achieve a sustainable and effective transition to domestic funding for patients' access to the necessary medicines.
international regulatory cooperation is necessary to strengthen a competitive industrial base in europe in order to promote a competitive, transparent and stable economic environment that respects the highest standards of safety and health protection.
i believe that only by creating a coherent and transparent regulatory framework and by technological harmonisation can economic competitiveness and sustainable development of this sector be generated, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
international regulatory cooperation could help promote a transparent, effective, pro-competitive economic environment, as well as developing and securing the highest levels of protection of health and safety.
the recent emission scandals involving the car industry highlight the urgent need to improve implementation and monitoring of regulations, including at international level, in order to ensure safety and performance for consumers and deliver genuine environmental benefits.
in this way, common rules will promote transparency, efficiency and competition in the economic environment, while ensuring the protection of health and safety.
moreover, negotiating the terms of such agreements can help to promote human rights and environmental principles around the world.
the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years.
members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years.
policy coherence for development is a fundamental element for the implementation of the new sustainable development agenda, but also in areas such as trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security.
‒ policy coherence for development (pcd) is a pillar of the new sustainable development agenda, but its implementation requires the implementation of the commission's commitment in its fifth biennial report.
the eu needs to promote the creation of strong regulatory frameworks with clear criteria to protect the rights and food security of vulnerable groups, but also to support the creation of concrete health systems, sustainable health infrastructure and the provision of quality basic health and care services.
‒ policy coherence for development will be an important part of the eu's contribution to the wider objective of promoting sustainable development policies.
the 2030 agenda for sustainable development represents a unique opportunity to address the interconnected issues of poverty eradication and sustainable development.
‒ i welcome this report, which is now more needed than ever, considering the adoption of the new 17 sdgs (sustainable development goals) in the framework of the agenda 2030. today the implementation of the principle of policy coherence requires solid political commitment at all levels, adequate institutional mechanisms, and willingness to use them, with the ultimate goal to avoid pursuing policies that may have negative effects on the well-being of people in developing countries, the respect of their human rights and the protection of the environment.
‒ the european union’s 2030 agenda represents the new framework that should tackle the issue of poverty and should achieve sustainable development.
policy coherence appeared on the eu agenda at the beginning of the 1990s, being institutionalised through the maastricht treaty in 1992. i support this report, which aims to further address challenges such as poverty eradication and sustainable development.
the report in question calls for stronger linkage between pcd and the sustainable development goals, better involvement of local and regional governments, civil society organisations and think tanks, impact assessment on the action being taken, the establishment of a complaint mechanism, an evidence based analysis of pcds, the establishment of national and european strategies and the organisation of a specific european council meeting on pcd.
i agree with the rapporteur that the partnership for effective development cooperation is a key element for the development and implementation of the new sustainable development agenda.
at the same time, policies that generate sustainable family farming are needed, which implies directing official development assistance to family farms.
i believe that the new alliance for food security and nutrition is a fundamental tool for reducing poverty and fighting hunger, creating the conditions for sustainable and sustainable agriculture, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
to ensure the sustainability of this program, the nafsn must benefit small-scale farmers and small family businesses to secure and strengthen their role in the food supply chain, establish regionally adapted agricultural structures and water-conserving agronomic techniques, and emphasize the importance of a high-quality, balanced nutrition.
rather, both funders and national governments should invest in a sustainable, smallholder-friendly model of agriculture to enhance the potential of internal and regional markets for the benefit of family farms and to provide consumers with quality food at affordable prices.
the total amount invested by g8 states is us$8 billion and is channelled into good governance and property guarantee, public accountability, promotion of sustainable family farming, access to land and land security, seed legislation, gender perspective and funding for agricultural investment in africa.
stronger regulation and monitoring of public-private partnerships to respect human rights and european social and environmental standards is also required.
‒ i believe it is necessary to promote accounting standards that ensure financial stability and sustainable growth.
the adoption of common accounting standards also contributes to financial stability and sustainable economic development in the eu.
mr president, the emergence of terrorist and guerrilla groups in somalia, nigeria and the sahel/sahara region has led to a dramatic change in the security climate.
but there is a lack of transparency of eu peacekeeping operations, and as such, we don't know exactly what happens to the money, and the peacekeeping instrument that we fund is not sustainable, it's not controllable.
the aim of the pso is to contribute to the creation of a climate of long-term stability, security and prosperity.
good governance, justice, respect for the rule of law, civil protection, respect for human rights and security are key conditions for this, and the success of reconstruction, reconciliation and economic development programmes will contribute to achieving sustainable prosperity, but at the same time will lead to the achievement of peace.
‒ with the increase in fragile states and ungoverned spaces, the security climate in africa has changed dramatically in recent years.
‒ given that the purpose of peacekeeping operations (psos) is to respond to crisis situations in order to contribute to the creation of a climate of stability, security and greater prosperity in the long term, i consider that respect for peace agreements is vital for the stability of the african and european neighbourhood.
in addition to the organisation of diplomatic, military and development missions, other elements such as a thorough knowledge of the security environment and the exchange of information and technologies are essential.
demand for healthy food is expected to increase by up to 70% by 2050, and declining land availability, ecological losses and environmental degradation, water scarcity, increasing energy needs, as well as the emergence of new pests and diseases, are putting considerable pressure on the natural environment, making it increasingly difficult for farmers to produce food sustainably.
agricultural technologies have increased potential in the productivity and sustainability of agriculture, with farmers seeing technology as the only realistic way to respond to current challenges.
i voted in favour of the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture because i believe that it is very beneficial for farmers and for sustainable agriculture and the future to identify viable solutions for achieving organic and healthy agriculture.
today, there is a positive trend in healthy food on the european market, a demand that unfortunately farmers cannot meet due to several factors such as: reduced availability of land, ecological losses and environmental degradation, water shortages, energy needs, and the emergence of new pests.
i support this report because i believe that the need to improve productivity, competitiveness and environmental performance is not just a matter of economics, but rather a moral obligation of the ep to optimise and increase agricultural production in the most sustainable way possible for the wellbeing of european citizens.
‒ with global population growth, food demand is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. the increasingly scarce availability of land, as well as other factors such as ecological losses, make agricultural technology innovation the only reliable solution.
i voted for creating a regulatory environment that is conducive to innovation and ensuring that eu regulations do not act as barriers to innovation.
‒ this report looks at how new technological solutions could make future agriculture more sustainable while responding to the rise of the global population, food security, increase demand of high protein products in the new emerging powers and demand for healthier food.
i believe we have to make sure that tomorrow’s agriculture will be sustainable and will be able to feed an increasing world population.
we have to tackle food waste first.
innovation and research should accompany the future of agriculture but with the aim of safe and healthy food, improving the environment by not only protecting it but also and diminishing our consumption of chemical products such as fertilisers and pesticides.
‒ i voted for this report because i support the need to improve productivity, competitiveness and environmental performance and i believe this is not just a matter of economics.
technological innovation is an essential part of the solution, and agricultural technologies in particular have the potential to increase productivity and sustainability of agriculture, and farmers recognise and appreciate this.
i also encourage the creation of a more innovation-friendly environment and ensure that eu regulations do not act as barriers to innovation.
i support this report, which aims to ensure support for technological innovation in order to tackle long-term challenges of sustainable agriculture.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union needs to strengthen its increasingly clear position in support of sustainable agriculture.
as the world's population and by extension the european community's is continually growing, with estimates showing that we are expected to have 10 billion people worldwide by 2050, the eu urgently needs to identify sustainable ways to improve agricultural production.
i therefore consider it absolutely necessary that the report proposes to step up cooperation between the european commission, the member states and industry to improve the performance of technological systems, which would consume fewer natural resources, give better yields, maintain the same quality of food and, not least, reduce pollution.
at the same time, ecological losses, environmental degradation, water shortages and the emergence of new types of pests will create additional difficulties for farmers.
the european union can become a world leader in agricultural innovation and sustainability through conventional, organic or other improvements that would be available to farmers.
at the same time, however, this report does not address other solutions to this problem, such as tackling food waste, preserving biodiversity and diversifying crops.
decreasing land availability, environmental degradation, water scarcity, increased demand for energy and the emergence of new diseases are putting considerable pressure on the agricultural sector.
in this respect, this report supports the introduction of new technologies, which can play a key role in crop productivity and sustainability.
the report underlines that the european union should become a world leader in technology, innovation and sustainability in agriculture, while ensuring that the benefits of technological progress are available to all farmers.
i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu.
the proposals included by the rapporteur in this initiative aim to support the creation of a sustainable and competitive european agri-food chain.
‒ according to the un, to achieve the sustainable development goals, agricultural productivity should double by 2030, while the agri-food sector should adapt to climate change and changing weather conditions.
i support the ep's motion for a resolution because i believe that for a new europe, access to food and an adequate supply of good quality and safe food for all eu citizens, while alleviating pressure on natural resources and thus preserving the environment and valuable resources for future generations, are important steps to be taken.
‒ i believe that mainstreaming policies to promote farmers' training in new technologies and supporting innovation and entrepreneurship among young farmers are essential elements for making agriculture more environmentally sustainable and the sector more competitive.
better management of natural resources is key for sustainable agriculture.
but at the same time we need to tackle food waste since each year 100 million tonnes of food in europe is wasted, food waste is to be fought at all levels of the food chain from production, processing and retailers to consumers, as 33% of food waste is produced by consumers.
agro-forestry and conservation agriculture have been recognised as sustainable innovative techniques that should be further promoted at european level.
the report voted on today contains a package of measures to promote intensive but sustainable agricultural development in the context of population growth.
this sustainable development is necessary to reduce the need for imported plant protein products into the european union and to respond to the diversification of the needs of agri-food consumers.
with limited resources and the effects of climate change becoming increasingly acute, european agriculture needs to produce more, but also more sustainably.
innovation is key when we talk about smart water use and better environmental protection, but i want to stress that food safety and health should never be compromised.
at the same time, demographic pressure on agriculture will lead to increased pressure on the environment and arable land, leading to the need to strengthen the innovation process and the eu's common agricultural policy.
this initiative underlines the importance of innovation for sustainable agriculture.
it is simply that africa is young, it is poor, it is facing the dramatic effect of climate change, and it is only natural that this happens, if we do not work with a long-term strategic perspective to change this.
so now we need to solve it and the only sustainable way of solving it is by doing it in a european way.
we can solve it, and get pan—european support for a humane refugee policy, if, and only if, we sort out the issue of economic migration in a sustainable way, and the compact with african countries is one element for doing that.
the eu and bangladesh continue addressing together new challenges, such as contributing to the sustainability of the bangladesh ready-made garment industry, a very important topic i think, through the sustainability compact and, more recently, addressing comprehensively migration and mobility.
mr president, as a member of the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia, i am concerned about the climate of violence and crime in bangladesh in recent months.
we must bear this in mind and ask our partners in dhaka to significantly improve the political and public climate in general.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
i want to thank, in particular, the foreign affairs committee for its work on space capabilities for european security and defence that was coordinated by mr zdrojewski, with input from mr marinescu who represented the committee on industry, research and energy.
space solutions and technologies can have a decisive impact on high political priorities such as climate change, air quality, border management, transport, environment issues and security.
we want to mainstream the use of space to support public policies, providing effective solutions to the big societal challenges such as – as i said before – climate change, security, migration, and the digital agenda.
we want a space environment that is sustainable and remains accessible, safe and secure.
we are also looking into the international developments taking place and how space technology could help our climate change agenda, notably with regard to co2 emissions.
– mr president, we all see that the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, both within and outside the european union.
today, space policy means strategic opportunities in key areas such as telecommunications, transport and energy, weather and climate monitoring and, not least, security.
on the one hand, these efforts must be seen in a highly competitive geopolitical environment, in which the eu must maintain a firm and coherent position for reasons of security and defence.
without that we cannot talk about economic growth, social cohesion or transition to a sustainable economy.
furthermore, palau has announced its intention of obtaining 20% its energy from renewable resources by 2020 and the government has launched economic diversification measures in order to reduce dependence on external aid.
in recent years, the country has made important progress, particularly in combating trafficking in human beings and in the area of women's and children's rights, as well as in the field of renewable energy.
i voted in favour of this report, which has direct and positive effects on the energy industry, particularly renewables, on the development of tourism and on economic progress.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because, first of all, we need to protect the environment, but at the same time we need to help the victims of such a maritime accident, and this can only be done through a coherent policy framework on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances at sea.
both conventions overlap with the scope of directive 2004/35/ec on environmental liability of operators carrying out professional activities, including maritime transport.
‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea - hns convention - represents a relevant international legal instrument in terms of transport and environment.
‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea – hns convention – represents a relevant international legal instrument in terms of transport and environment.
this interim report should not be seen as an obstacle to the establishment of a uniform liability regime, but rather as an effort to ensure that this process is carried out with maximum efficiency and fairness, without affecting the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of eu law, but also without creating excessive disparities for the victims of pollution and for the shipping industry.
i voted in favour of this report because we need to protect the environment but at the same time we need to help the victims of such a maritime accident, and this can only be done through a coherent political and legal framework on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances at sea.
‒ the environmental liability directive does not provide for compensation to victims beyond the limits of the ship owner's liability.
i voted in favour of a uniform liability regime for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances by sea, given the worldwide dimension of this phenomenon.
‒ the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea – hns convention – represents a relevant international legal instrument in terms of transport and environment.
i therefore wish to encourage the republic of the philippines to continue its efforts to effectively implement its obligations and commitments in the areas of human and workers' rights, the environment and good governance in order to continue to benefit from this status.
we must continue insisting on respect for human rights, labour, social, environmental rights, as well as on their effective monitoring, and on provisions guaranteeing fair trade.
i voted in favour of the conclusion of the framework partnership agreement, wanting to stress the major importance of continued european financial support and assistance to strengthen democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law, the implementation of policies for environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
we must continue insisting on respect for human rights, labour, social, environmental rights, as well as on their effective monitoring, and on provisions guaranteeing fair trade.
i voted in favour of this report, wanting to ask the philippine government and the governments of the member states to continue to work together both in the fight against terrorism, human trafficking and poverty, and in the establishment of measures to protect human rights and labour, environmental and governance rights.
we must continue insisting on respect for human rights, labour, social, environmental rights, as well as on their effective monitoring, and on provisions guaranteeing fair trade.
unfortunately, the country still faces a number of problems with respect to human rights, social rights and environmental standards.
however, the current proposal for a framework partnership and cooperation agreement is an important step in developing the eu's relations with the country, particularly in the area of trade and business, but also in strengthening international security, managing climate change and monitoring respect for human rights and labour law.
i agree with the rapporteur that the eu should continue to provide financial support and capacity-building assistance to the republic of the philippines in poverty reduction, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, assisting the country in disaster preparedness, humanitarian aid and assistance, and in implementing effective climate change policies.
the ep also encourages the republic of the philippines to continue to improve the investment climate, including the isd climate, by increasing transparency and good governance, by implementing the un guiding principles on trade and human rights and by further developing infrastructure through public-private partnerships, as appropriate.
this programme is intended to support the reforms undertaken by tunisia to improve its budgetary situation, balance of payments and create a more favourable environment for investment.
this is a way to help tunisia further consolidate its democracy, bring about an environment more conducive to investment and urgently address unemployment.
nevertheless, in light of the terrorist attacks of 2015, i support an additional programme of eur 500 million, in the form of micro finance assistance (mfa), in order to consolidate tunisia`s democracy, address the issue of unemployment and create an attractive environment for investors.
this distorts business decisions in the internal market and, if not addressed effectively, could create an environment of unfair tax competition.
clear and harmonised legislation would promote the transparency of the european economic environment and foster employment, combat poverty and develop high-performing health systems for all.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because it encourages tax practices that are beneficial to the internal business environment of the european union.
‒ the climate of impunity regarding the cia programs still represents a menace towards the values of justice, equity and dignity on which our societies are built on.
the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and difficult to protect, so we need concerted action to counter the threats we face.
‒ with the security environment becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging both inside and outside the union, characterised by terrorist attacks affecting all member states and to which they must respond by adopting a common and strengthened strategy, the eu must take a more active role as a provider of security inside and outside the union, ensuring stability in its neighbourhood and globally.
‒ the security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging, both within and outside the union, characterised by terrorist attacks, hybrid war and mass murder which affects all member states and to which member states must respond by adopting a joint strategy and a coordinated response.
‒ the european union’s security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging.
space policy is a fundamental contributor to the implementation of union’s policies (transport, energy, environment, agriculture, etc.)
europe`s space policy is a fundamental contributor to the implementation of the union`s policies on transport, environment, energy and others.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which ensures a high level of protection of human, animal and environmental health by imposing strict control and prohibition of substances with endocrine-disrupting properties.
herbicide resistant gmos should not be authorised, because they could encourage the increase use of herbicides, and the wider health and environmental implications of this has not been taken into account.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion to ban the authorisation of genetically modified maize following empirical studies on the impact on human health and biodiversity.
in order to protect the health of european citizens, it is extremely important to analyze the impact of gmo products on the environment and to the people.
‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that authorizes the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically-modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 following a risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity.
efsa issued two scientific opinions in which it concluded that there was no scientific reason to consider that the intended use would cause any adverse effect on human health or the environment.
herbicide resistant gmos should not be authorised, because they could encourage the increase use of herbicides, and the wider health and environmental implications of this has not been taken into account.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion to ban the placing on the market of a genetically modified garden carnation, following empirical studies on its impact on human health and biodiversity.
‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution that authorises the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., line shd-27531-4) following a risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we have delivered on our side in terms of political engagement, high-level dialogues on energy, foreign policy, security and counter-terrorism, economy and trade.
3 years ago we closed a legal loophole and banned the practice of shark finning, to allow the shark population to recover and help restore the ecosystem balance.
whales – like sharks – play a role in balancing the marine ecosystem.
international cooperation is the only way to conserve a vast, shared resource like the marine environment.
to achieve its objectives, the european union should promote global competitiveness and take the lead in strategic sectors such as industry, innovation and energy.
rail transport is the lowest carbon dioxide emitting mode of transport.
it is our strong view that the government of cambodia has a duty to create and sustain an environment in which all political parties can go about their work without fear of violence or harassment.
an environment in which robust and frank policy discussion is encouraged, and in which the law is applied impartially.
mr president, i believe we have a strong interest in stepping up political and economic security cooperation, as well as sustainable development and peace cooperation, with the central asian region.
to secure industrial jobs and to support a sector, which is essential for a shift to sustainable mobility, the eu has to act now from a position of strength.
the european railway equipment industry has a key role to play in industrial development and job creation, as well as in the transition to sustainable mobility in the european area.
‒ stressing the positive impact that the rail supply industry (rsi) has on european growth and climate change, this resolution has my full support.
moreover, as called for in the resolution we should be ambitious about the prospect of creating a single european railway network that will increase efficiency, and hence our competition skills, reduce administrative costs and overall drive a shift towards a sustainable and energy-efficient europe based on a strong railway sector.
in this context, there is a need to maintain the global competitiveness of the european railway equipment industry, to adopt a renewed eu agenda, but also to invest in acquiring the necessary skills, to support smes and to improve the climate on european markets in favour of suppliers and to encourage demand for rail products.
– do you not think the fact that the european council decided to abandon the binding national targets and set a relatively low target of 27% for 2030 is highly disappointing and is going to jeopardise the european union’s renewable energy progress, and that this target should have been established at 40% by the commission?
mr president, commissioner, energy efficiency and renewable energy have triggered many positive developments in most member states.
these two components of the energy union, renewable energies, together with energy efficiency, are essential elements for reducing the european union's energy dependence and improving energy security.
the establishment of the energy mix must remain a national competence, so that each member state chooses to develop its own form of renewable energy.
in future interim reports on renewable energy, i hope to see an assessment of their impact on costs and prices, in particular on prices for household consumers.
transparency with regard to full and detailed data on the breakdown of costs and subsidies for the various technologies in the energy sector would provide a more detailed picture of the energy market.
i believe that reducing the energy bill for consumers should also be one of the mandatory targets and transparency would be a step in that direction.
mr president, to be honest, i did not understand whether you support or not the objectives of the commission and the council, but i ask you very clearly: do you think we can suddenly stop producing energy from fossil fuels without investing and that we can destroy hundreds of thousands of jobs by not having modern technologies and not securing resources from the european fund for strategic investments for modern technology in energy production?
mr president, unfortunately there are still politicians who question the negative effects of climate change.
what we see happening today in europe, as climate phenomena, as in the world, shows us that we don't have much time left to decarbonize the global economy.
on the one hand, the development of renewable energy, on the other, energy saving.
i want to tell you that romania has already met the target on renewable energy for 2020. i would also like to make an important point: normally, energy investment strategies should be restructured immediately, in the sense of stopping investment in the development of energy capacities based on fossil fuels and, of course, directing investment towards renewable energy, but also towards research and development, especially in the area of electricity storage.
energy and energy sources are important topics.
obviously, we have to consider how we use our natural energy sources and how decarbonization takes place.
i am happy that my country, romania, has achieved its 2020 targets, being in the top 3 countries in terms of the percentage of green energy in total energy.
unfortunately, the commission did not take into account the reality of each country and tried to suspend national responsibilities for the energy mix.
the solution is not to eliminate energy sources, but to invest in modern technologies, in research, to increase the safety of these energy sources and to decarbonize.
the efsi and the structural funds have not been used optimally in the fields of energy, transport and energy efficiency.
we must not forget consumers, who unfortunately have borne the costs of green energy, and we must rethink the system of subsidies for energy producers.
renewable energy must go hand in hand with energy efficiency, which leads to lower consumption and lower costs for consumers.
the coherence between the ets and energy policies to reduce carbon emissions needs to be strengthened to make a real contribution to energy efficiency improvements.
the european fund for strategic investments under the eu investment plan is an instrument that can make an important short-term contribution to energy efficiency investments, and could have significant effects on the internal energy market.
the structural funds and the cohesion fund should be used to stimulate investment in energy efficiency, in the development of sustainable low-carbon energy technologies.
investments must be fully integrated into national energy efficiency strategies.
the production of energy from renewable sources must, however, be linked to the need to ensure the continuity of conventional energy production as a prerequisite for sustainability.
the modernisation fund, recently proposed by the commission, is another instrument that could be used to modernise energy systems and improve energy efficiency in low-income eu member states.
– energy is the source of development.
europe needs a policy designed to ensure energy efficiency, sustainability of production and protection of disadvantaged consumers.
in order to do that, we need first of all to make sure that we invest in the latest technologies that are capable of raising energy efficiency while taking care of our development needs.
furthermore we need to develop a pan-european energy production and distribution plan that takes care of the particularities of each member state and region while at the same time focusing on job creation, training for new skills and the need to ensure energy independence for europe.
therefore the energy sector needs an organised investment plan that ensures the modernisation of the industry allowing prices to be kept low for consumers.
improving energy efficiency is a key factor in protecting the environment, strengthening economic competitiveness and combating energy poverty.
in the case of renewable energy, which is currently cheaper than some conventional energy sources, we are talking about new jobs, economic growth and technological development.
if we can increase energy efficiency, we can also reduce our dependence on expensive energy imports and help protect the environment.
this measure provides for flexibility in supply and sustainability, which would bring additional benefits to the european union, in particular in construction and transport.
in this regard, i believe that eu countries need to do more to fully implement the 2020 framework strategy on climate and energy, which calls for reducing co2 emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy sources and increasing energy efficiency.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources, including the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment.
the ep must take the lead in creating a more transparent business environment that limits the excess speculation and greed that led to the global financial crisis of 2008. the effects of this crisis are still being felt today, and we in the ep need to focus on legislative initiatives, but also on actions to help change mindsets.
the country faces a fragile security environment, being at the forefront of the syrian civil war, with over a million refugees out of four million of a total of the population.
the country faces a fragile security environment, being at the forefront of the syrian civil war, with over a million refugees out of four million of a total of the population.
the country faces a fragile security environment, being at the forefront of the syrian civil war, with over a million of refugees out of 4 million total population.
‒ responsible exploitation of aquatic resources is required, taking into account sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions.
i believe that the exploitation of aquatic resources, and not only, should always be based on principles such as sustainable development and take into account the protection of natural resources, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
i voted in favour of this report, on the one hand, to draw attention to the importance of using transparent, objective, social and environmental criteria in dealing with the subject of fishing in european waters and, on the other hand, to affirm the importance of maintaining the codecision procedure in the transposition of the rfmo recommendations.
‒ when dealing with this fishing sustainability, we must safeguard long-term productivity, promote local employment opportunities, encourage the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and a responsible exploitation of fisheries resources.
owners of large vessels are too dominant and might harm fishing sustainability.
i therefore support transposal into union law of the measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meetings between 2012 and 2014. i believe that the technical measures included in the multiannual recovery plan will lead to positive developments for environment, nature and local employment.
i voted in favour of this report for the effective implementation of the bluefin tuna recovery plan with a significant impact on the marine ecosystem.
multiannual plans are the basic instrument of the cfp, without which we will not be able to meet the objectives of sustainable fisheries and the protection of fish stocks set by the cfp.
however, if strict rules are not applied to ensure that catches are below maximum sustainable yields then the future of the fishing industry itself is put at risk.
management of fisheries and enforcement of these regulations at sea remain big challenges with important social, economic and environmental consequences.
at the same time, however, the eu is a signatory to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat), a regional fisheries management organisation which regulates maximum catch levels to avoid harming the biodiversity of the marine fauna in the area.
this requires a multi-species management approach, taking into account sustainable and responsible exploitation and ensuring the stability of fishing opportunities.
given the importance of cod, herring and sprat for the baltic sea ecosystem and the strong influence of biological interactions and environmental effects on the baltic sea stocks, i believe that a multiannual plan is needed for the proper management of these stocks, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
‒ as a contracting party to the united nations convention on the law of the sea of 10 december 1982, the european union promotes a prudent and ecosystem-based approach to the regulation of fisheries and aquaculture.
therefore, to ensure the socio-economic and environmental sustainability of the policies covered by the multiannual plan, permanent, effective and transparent collaboration between the co-legislators and the european commission is necessary.
in order to minimise the negative effects of fishing activities on the marine ecosystem, technical support measures should be introduced, the selectivity of gear and practices improved, conservation reference levels established and a global fisheries plan drawn up.
i voted in favour of this report, wanting to express the importance of institutional collaboration, consultation with experts and specialised bodies in order to create sustainable fisheries policies.
‒ multiannual plans are fundamental to reduce fishing mortality to rate which can maximise long-term sustainable yield.
i therefore support changes in order to cover, in a single management plan, the three main fished species distributed in eight stocks in the baltic sea, namely two for cod, five for herring and one for sprat, with the aim to achieve and maintain maximum sustainable yield (msy) for these stocks.
this plan would look much more closely at the problem of fish stocks in the baltic sea area with a view to an ecosystem approach to fisheries management.
i have voted for this report that aims to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea, while ensuring that management is based on the most up to date scientific information on interactions within and between the stocks and with other aspects of the ecosystem and environment.
the adoption of multiannual plans for these fish stocks is the basic instrument used to achieve the objectives of sustainable fishing and the protection of fish stocks set out in the cfp.
the multi-species approach is much more effective than the single-species approach and the plan should provide for the sustainable and balanced exploitation of these stocks and guarantee the stability of fishing opportunities and, of course, the sources of income of fishermen.
the multiannual plans should also ensure that the management of cod and herring stocks is based on the latest scientific advice on the state of the stocks concerned, the interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fishing activities.
in this context, the commission has considered since 2008 that an integrated management of the catches of the three main species is needed in order not to affect the sustainable development of the marine ecosystem concerned.
i consider this to be an important document for the marine ecosystem in the baltic sea under the new common fisheries policy and therefore support its adoption.
a multiannual management plan should ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and marine ecosystems.
in accordance with the principle laid down in article 2 of the basic regulation on the common fisheries policy, exploitation must allow the populations of species to be restored and maintained at levels above those which allow maximum sustainable yield to be achieved.
the causes of this persistent climate of violence are diverse, including the lack of state institutions that could allow for dialogue and increased interethnic cooperation, conflict between paramilitary groups and the army, or the struggle of organized crime groups to gain control of numerous natural resources and borders to facilitate illicit trafficking.
i have voted for this motion for a resolution that calls for all parties to the conflict to put an immediate end to the violence, lay down their arms, release all children from their ranks and promote dialogue towards a peaceful and sustainable resolution of the conflict.
i would stress that one of the most effective ways of combating inequality and poverty is to strengthen education; i therefore note that the effectiveness and operational aspects of et2020 need to be strengthened and call for increased attention to the quality of education, starting from kindergarten and then throughout life, which will allow young people to adapt easily to the changing social and economic environment.
‒ i believe that communication strategies between school and parents and character building and other personal development programmes, implemented in the learning environment, in cooperation with families and other relevant social partners, can contribute to a bottom-up social convergence, to the promotion of active citizenship and european values.
i also believe that an encouraging family environment is essential for children to acquire the right basic skills and highlights the value of parent training, which can be effective in tackling educational poverty.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which provides for the correct and effective use of the framework for action taken as a result of the strategic climate for european cooperation in education and training (et2020).
‒ the development of renewable energy needs a new approach to make it the main pillar of the eu's energy model.
it is a fundamental responsibility to combat climate change, it is a historic duty that must be fulfilled.
the transition to a sustainable production model is a social priority that cannot be solved by the market alone, and democratic participation and regulation are necessary elements to avoid serious environmental and social externalities, which do not allow us to let energy oligopolies define europe's energy future.
the eu has a legal instrument to help achieve this through the renewable energy directive.
by adopting this directive, europe has initiated a process of transformation of the energy mix in the member states, a legal instrument which has allowed the establishment of a favourable framework for the development of the renewable energy sector and has contributed to the development of a diversified and varied sector.
i voted in favour of the renewable energy progress report because this renewable energy source is needed for all eu member states, both to make progress on bioenergy and to combat climate change in the eu and beyond.
‒ the shift towards renewable energies is of the utmost importance for the european union’s energy model.
we need to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels in order to combat climate change effectively.
with this, we must ensure the creation of quality jobs and the development of necessary technologies in order to ensure a successful and smooth energy transition.
this has allowed many of the member states to work more effectively to achieve the targets set for 2020. since reducing greenhouse gas emissions also depends on achieving the goals in renewable energy, it is important that the measures adopted improve support mechanisms for renewable energy sources to ensure that consumers benefit from the technological advances.
thus, i voted for the resolution on the renewable energy progress report to ensure that we will reach the targets set for 2020 and those of the cop 21 paris agreement.
‒ technological advances in the production and storage of energy from renewable sources, the awareness of the need to reduce the impact on the environment in order to achieve sustainable development, and the need to increase the autonomy of member states in a period when energy is used in constraint policies indicate the importance of the widespread use of these resources.
in this context, i believe that the european union and the member states need to set more ambitious climate and energy targets, exceeding the european council's target of 27% of energy from renewable sources in energy consumption by 2030. i voted in favour of this report, wanting to underline the importance of diversifying energy sources in order to build a true european energy union.
responsible, effective and transparent monitoring of the implementation of existing european legislation, encouraging public investment and democratic control over the energy sector will make it possible to eliminate energy oligopolies and ensure an autonomous, sustainable and efficient energy model.
‒ i believe that it is important to exchange best practices on national renewable energy policies in order to promote their adoption within a more convergent european model, fostering increased cooperation and coordination between member states.
‒ continued investment in renewables requires ambitious leadership and commitment and a long-term, stable and reliable policy framework consistent with the climate commitments made by the eu in paris.
in order to achieve our goals, the commission has to ensure full implementation of the 2020 renewable energy directive and put forward an ambitious post-2020 legislative framework.
‒ my country, romania, is in first place in the percentage of green energy in total energy produced, but consumers have had a high cost and it is not normal to transfer all the pressure to the final consumer.
i did not support this report because it does not contain clear provisions on how to protect consumers from the increase in the price of green energy, it does not clearly provide for the involvement of the efsi in research for modern technologies for efficiency and decarbonisation.
they also disagree with the fact that no account was taken of country-specific conditions and subsidiarity requirements in the energy mix.
‒ i voted in favour of this report which encourages the development of renewable energy at european level, which, by supporting the legal framework at european union level, would encourage public investment, democratic control and facilitate the collective and democratic management of this sector.
‒ by 2030, half of our electricity will be renewable.
by 2035, electricity will be carbon-free.
renewable sources produce alternatives to fossil fuels and aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
these sources contribute to diversifying energy supply and reducing dependence on volatile and unreliable fossil fuel markets, in particular oil and gas.
the development of renewable energy (wind, solar, hydroelectric, ocean, geothermal, biomass and biofuels) is a priority at eu level.
the old framework for promoting renewable energy - for example the promotion of biofuels in transport - also had a strong negative impact on food production.
we need to have global coordination and planning of logistics and urban policies for them to become truly sustainable.
‒ i voted for the report on renewable energy because a stable regulatory framework is needed in the long term.
the transition to a sustainable energy system must include efforts in energy efficiency, renewable energy, the optimal use of europe's energy resources and smart infrastructure.
the development of renewable energy should coincide with the development of a functioning internal market for electricity, ensuring a level playing field for all market participants.
renewable energy needs to involve more stakeholders and consumers in the energy system.
the commission should include in future interim reports on renewable energy an assessment of the impact of renewable energy sources on costs and prices, in particular household prices.
the production of energy from renewable sources should be linked to the need to ensure the continuity of conventional energy production, as a prerequisite for sustainability, security of supply and competitiveness.
the establishment of the energy mix of the member states should remain a national competence, as the energy mix remains highly diversified.
finally, incentives for the development of indigenous energy sources, such as hydroelectricity, as a renewable energy source, remain a priority.
‒ the renewable energy progress report assesses the member states’ efforts in the promotion and use of renewable energy.
in the run-up to the review of the renewable energy directive and associated instruments, which will take place later this year, parliament took the opportunity to show its support for this legal mechanism that has an enormous potential to drive substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
although we acknowledge the growth driven by the development of renewable energy in various sectors, some constructive criticisms are nonetheless in order, to make the framework sustainable to the fullest degree.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution that seeks to orientate policy towards a cost-efficient and clean energy model for 2050.
in writing.
‒ the development of renewable energies calls for a new approach that entails making them the main pillar of the european union’s energy model.
i voted for this report, which looks at progress towards meeting the eu’s 2020 20% renewable energy target, and also looks forward to the post-2020 framework.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union must continue and strengthen its policy of developing the renewable energy industry, a policy which is close to achieving its 2020 targets.
due to technological advances in recent years, advances in the process of generation and storage, the costs of producing energy from renewable sources have decreased significantly.
this now allows this energy to be increasingly competitive with fossil energy.
i welcome the proposal in the report to step up cooperation between the european commission and the member states to improve energy performance from renewable sources, energy that consumes few natural resources, with the same qualities, and, not least, energy that reduces pollution and greenhouse gases.
‒ renewable energy contributes to increased energy independence and reduced greenhouse gases.
however, the 2030 targets need to be ambitious enough to send a strong signal for investment in renewable energy projects which are sustainable both economically and environmentally.
sustainability criteria for biomass will be especially important in the coming years.
‒ global warming has brought to the fore the need to develop the renewable energy sector.
the european union and its member states have formally supported this process over the past decades, becoming the main promoters of renewable energy worldwide.
however, the transition to the sustainable energy production model involves a significant regulatory effort, in particular at social, environmental and competitiveness levels.
the first step was taken with the adoption of directive 2009/28/ec on renewable energy, which contributed to the development and diversification of the sector at european level.
‒ the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive contains several positive points, such as the importance of energy efficiency for achieving climate objectives, the need for better monitoring and clarification of the definition of smes and state aid rules.
excessive reporting requirements are criticised and a stronger focus on energy efficiency instead of energy saving is called for.
however, there are a number of important provisions, such as the 40% energy efficiency target for 2030, which in my view are neither reasonable nor tangible.
‒ greenhouse gas emissions have steadily reduced by increasing the share of renewable energy sources in energy consumption.
the energy efficiency directive aims to encourage member states to invest in energy efficient technologies.
while the scheme may aid in starting the transition towards a more sustainable energy system, the directive is poorly implemented, hindering its full potential.
the unambitious target of 27% for improving energy efficiency in 2030 can only be justified by an extremely unrealistic high discount rate.
in light of the paris climate change agreement, there should be a 2030 target that better reflects the level of cost-effective energy efficiency potential.
this high discount rate overlooks the role of public bodies in driving energy efficiency improvements.
there should be new innovative and smart solutions to better utilise renewable energy and to reduce energy consumption.
for these reasons, i voted against the resolution on the implementation report of the energy efficiency directive.
in devising energy efficiency plans, energy audits based on reducing energy consumption must be conducted to address energy poverty.
there needs to be a more comprehensive approach to improving energy efficiency.
‒ increased energy efficiency and energy saving are key factors for, among others, environmental and climate protection, strengthening economic competitiveness and job creation.
the fact that the eu is not on track to meet its 2020 energy efficiency target due to poor implementation of the eed, excessive flexibility and too many loopholes is extremely disappointing.
finally, i believe that the energy efficiency directive should prioritise measures to alleviate energy poverty.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the important role of energy efficiency in meeting the european union's target of increasing production by 20% and reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. this directive represents an opportunity to optimise and increase energy consumption efficiently in a way that is sustainable for the economy.
‒ this report has shed some light on a series of problems regarding cost reductions achieved through energy savings.
i supported this motion for a resolution that calls upon the commission to generate clever solutions to problems such as increased energy prices for households and small businesses or complex reporting obligations.
in view of a coherent climate and energy policy, the commission needs to make additional efforts to detect any ambiguities, inconsistencies or inadequacies between eu-wide rules on climate protection, legislation linked with energy efficiency and national approaches to energy policy.
‒ i have voted for this implementation report that looks at how the energy efficiency directive (agreed in 2012) is being implemented by the member states, and the progress to reaching the 2020 20% energy efficiency target, as well as looking forward to the 2030 framework and target.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that the efficient use of energy is a matter of common interest for all the member states of the european union and has as its objective a common goal: reducing energy dependence on various other countries.
we are also facing, and i speak for all member states, extreme climate events that can no longer be ignored.
building on this, the report adopted today promotes the efficient use of energy and calls on the european commission, together with the member states, to strengthen and promote new technologies that reduce energy losses, to encourage energy renovation programmes for buildings and, not least, the use of energy from renewable sources.
‒ much more work is needed on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
energy dependency and energy poverty remain huge challenges, both of which can be partly addressed by improved energy efficiency.
i applaud the work of my s&d colleagues on this report and their efforts to provide an analysis of the current situation with an important focus on energy poverty.
‒ the european union has undertaken a comprehensive greenhouse gas mitigation process over the past three decades to slow down global warming.
thus, between 1990 and 2014, greenhouse gas emissions fell by 23%, while eu gdp increased by 46%.
by 2020, the eu's targets include a 20% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions, a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and a 20% increase in energy efficiency.
however, at present the commission estimates that only 17,6% of the energy efficiency target will be reached, which seriously jeopardises the achievement of the 40% target for 2030. the reasons for this include red tape in energy reporting, high levels of energy prices for smes and households and special provisions at national level.
in this context, there is a need to clarify the european framework for energy efficiency, as well as a series of measures to boost the replacement of polluting energy with renewable energy at member state level, outside the framework already created by ets certificates.
it is also necessary to promote common european values and to ensure stability, social justice, sustainability, economic growth and job creation.
the eu must deliver stability, social justice, sustainability, growth and job creation, overcome persistent economic and social uncertainties, protect citizens and address the challenge of migration.
mr. president, this report is about reducing pollution and a cleaner environment.
15% of total nox and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union are emitted by machinery used in agriculture or industry, such as the railway industry or even the shipping industry and other industries.
the report we voted on today imposes limits on emissions, even from the approval of the engines of these vehicles.
it also aims to remove barriers to external trade through harmonised rules and by reducing regulatory barriers resulting from divergent emissions requirements.
taking into account that one of the objectives of this proposal is to protect human health and the environment and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for engines for non-road mobile equipment, i have chosen to express my support for this report.
there must be stricter standards for more engine power ranges, combustion types and fuels to eliminate loopholes in the legislation and to negate the environmental and health damage they do.
‒ i support the non-road mobile machinery proposal, which aims to regulate harmful emissions from engines installed in so-called non-road mobile machinery (nrmm) – a term covering a wide variety of machinery such as construction machines, inland water vessels, trains, chainsaws and generator sets.
emissions from nrmm engines represent a significant part of the eu’s total emissions of nox and pm: 15% of total nox emissions and 5% of total pm emissions.
establishing stricter limits on nrmm emissions is an essential component of the eu’s air-quality policy framework and will help member states achieve the required emission reductions, as proposed in the necd and the ambient air quality directive.
the share of total nox emissions in the eu accounted for by nrmm engines is predicted to grow to 19% in 2020. at the same time, whilst emissions standards for road vehicles have become more stringent, equivalent measures for nrmm have lagged behind.
‒ new data shows that non-road mobile machinery engines contribute significantly to air pollution and are accountable for 15% of the nitrogen oxide and 5% of the particulate matter emissions in the eu, while their share of total emissions in the eu 15 is predicted to grow to 19% in 2020. taking this into consideration, a new legislative framework addressing these sectors is key in order to achieve the union’s air quality objectives.
the report will strike a reasonable balance between health and environmental concerns and the competitiveness of eu manufacturing industry, with the jobs and know-how it entails.
‒ poor air quality is the number one environmental cause of premature death in the eu.
we have passed legislation in this parliament to reduce air pollution from major sources, such as road traffic and industrial installations.
these legal limits deliver real reductions in pollution and help member states reach their national air quality targets.
this legislation is another important step in cleaning up our air, to improve our environment and ensure people live longer, healthier lives.
‒ reducing pollutant emissions is one of the european union's key environmental policy objectives.
a significant part of these emissions comes from internal combustion engines for non-road mobile equipment.
i believe that these are necessary regulations, which take account of the progress made in limiting road pollution and which are aimed at improving the living conditions of european citizens.
‒ i support the need to implement all recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, which were addressed by parliament to the european commission in 2010. stronger action is needed at european level in this sector, taking into account that the eu has the capacity to make a positive contribution to human rights and sustainable development worldwide through its trade policy.
at the same time, the link between trade and human rights on the one hand and social and environmental standards on the other has become an integral part of the eu's trade and economic relations.
i believe that the eu should use its trade policy to set high global standards in human and social rights, consumer protection and environmental protection, which is why i support this report and vote in favour of it.
enhanced trade agreements and trade preference programmes could be used to promote human rights, eliminate forced and child labour, ensure food security and the rights to health, sustainable development, high safety and environmental standards, and economic opportunities.
there needs to be a more effective cooperation and regular dialogue between the wto and the relevant un agencies and wto trade policy review mechanisms need to be reformed to include the social, environmental and hr dimensions.
therefore, i voted in favour of this report that will set human rights, environmental and social standards at both a unilateral and bilateral level.
by accounting for the impact of trade and investment agreements on vulnerable people and by using trade policy to encourage eu partner countries to adopt higher social and environmental standards, the eu will set a global standard to protect human rights, society and the environment.
‒ this is an own-initiative report on implementation of the 2010 recommendations of parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, which among other things, calls on the commission to urge for a reform of wto governance, incorporate a gender-sensitive approach, include effective hr clauses in trade agreements, and further involve the ep in decision-making.
i support the call for ambitious trade and sustainable development chapters in all trade agreements; for binding corporate social and responsibility standards, focusing on ‘enforcement’ mechanisms; to see civil society organisations and social partners formally involved in the monitoring process; and to support a gender-sensitive approach to trade.
social, environmental and human rights standards in trade agreements have become of major concern to citizens.
‒ the report places sustainable development at the heart of eu trade policy and reaffirms the role of the european parliament in making sure that the goals of the eu in this area remain ambitious and are systematically achieved.
i therefore supported this report that ensures that the european parliament remains engaged in promoting the necessary link between trade and sustainable development and sets the basis for the eu to maintain its leadership in the area of human rights, environmental and social standards.
‒ i am pleased to support this report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
trade policy should bring social and environmental benefits, higher standards for consumers and better conditions for workers.
the paragraphs on reform of wto governance, sustainability impact assessments, gender mainstreaming and greater democratic accountability are especially welcome.
‒ the european union has a duty to set high corporate social and responsibility standards and the alliance of socialists & democrats has always pushed for ambitious trade and sustainable development chapters in all trade agreements.
this future strategy for trade and investment will be a powerful means to strengthen sustainable development, promote human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
it should provide for measures to combat prosperity and ensure a fairer distribution of trade revenues, addressing issues such as digital trade and the key role of smes in developing a sustainable economy.
‒ the report, adopted on 5 july as a reaction to commission’s communication ‘trade for all’ reaffirms the main themes of the european parliament’s stance on trade, notably the mainstream idea that eu trade should contribute to growth and jobs, promote sustainable development and be consistent with other eu policy objectives.
trade policy must contribute to ensuring a transparent production process throughout the value chain and compliance with fundamental social, safety and environmental standards.
eu trade policy needs to keep pace with digital and technological trends, as cloud computing, mobile internet services, smart energy networks and online communication platforms are radically transforming the business environment.
negotiations should focus on ensuring that environmental, labour and consumer protection standards are improved rather than undermined.
i especially welcome the amendments tabled to this report by my political group on environmental protection, renewable energy, labour standards and gender equality.
the main proposals are for more transparency, commitment and accountability to stakeholders, and the design of trade agreements to strengthen the development of human rights, social and labour standards, gender equality and environmental protection worldwide.
thirdly, there is a very clear desire for our budget also to play the role of flag-bearer in addressing great global challenges such as climate action.
if we are not strong on that front we would be undermined all because of the extreme weather that comes with unmitigated climate change.
and the good news is that we have achieved over 20%: 20.3% of the budget is to be spent on climate action.
the exchange of information, the possibility of electronic reports or high-tech vessel monitoring, the expertise in combating illegal fishing in the protection of the marine environment will be effective and useful for the newly created agencies but certainly, where appropriate, the other two agencies will also be involved in the management of the risks we face, risks related to migration and risks related to the security system.
it should be noted that azerbaijan is an important partner in the energy sector and, not least, in the other key areas.
particular interest is shown in the region's energy transit and production potential, in the context of an increasingly pronounced eu dependence.
i voted to promote and develop eu-azerbaijan cooperation, not only in the energy field, but also to provide support to the people of this country to overcome the great difficulties they face.
continuing the dialogue between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan is of particular importance for the energy security of the european union and can be a development opportunity for romania, a country that can guarantee the security of energy transit, but also a qualified workforce for the construction of gas pipelines and their subsequent supervision.
one of those countries is azerbaijan, which is one of the union's key partners in the south caucasus region, in particular in the field of energy security.
its main objective is to improve security in the eu online environment and to strengthen cooperation among member states and european institutions in this field, overcoming the current fragmentation.
in the context of the development of the digital market and the increasing number of cyber attacks, i believe it is essential that the eu, through joint action by member states, enhances the security of its digital information and critical infrastructures such as energy and transport.
this directive requires member states to improve their level of preparedness and cooperation to ensure a secure digital environment in which eu values and citizens' rights are respected and protected, including in the digital area.
this is the first eu-wide legislative measure on cybersecurity, aimed at strengthening security in the european online environment and cooperation between member states and european institutions in this area, to overcome the current fragmented approach.
providers of basic services such as energy, transport, financial markets, health and even the food supply chain, or those providing digital services such as search engines, will be required to take measures to improve their ability to withstand cyber-attacks and to notify serious cases of network and information security breaches, taking immediate action to ensure information security.
madam president, by 2030, the union must increase energy efficiency by 27%.
we are moving towards this goal on several levels: we are using renewable energy and we are trying to break free from unhealthy relations, from energy dependence, especially with the russian federation.
for people, energy consumption has become very important, so they are careful when buying household appliances to how much they consume these products.
that is why the energy consumption of household appliances must be indicated on the label.
i know that the industry is concerned that a major change in energy labeling could have a negative impact on producers and consumers, but about consumers, i say one thing -- people are smart and they have the ability to discern and they decide what they buy.
‒ this legislative initiative is fundamental to the 2030 climate and energy policy framework, replacing directive 2010/30/eu on the indication by labelling and standard product information of the consumption of energy and other resources by energy-related products.
the current legislative proposal brings significant improvements and is essential to achieve the objectives of moderating energy demand.
energy labelling provides citizens with a thorough understanding of the environmental impact of products, while also providing citizens with the opportunity to compare products based on energy efficiency and cost criteria, thus enabling them to make cost-effective and environmentally responsible decisions.
i voted in favour of this initiative because i believe that energy labelling is beneficial both for the environment, generating energy savings, and for consumers, and, not least, it is appropriate for improving the free movement of products, encouraging competitiveness and innovation.
‒ energy efficiency is crucial for achieving the climate targets we accepted in paris last year at the un climate cop 21 conference, and is essential to reduce eu dependence and improve energy security.
energy efficiency labelling allows consumers to make informed choices with regard to efficient and sustainable energy-related products.
if we succeed in improving our energy efficiency we will also succeed in overcoming our dependency on expensive energy imports and we will achieve environmental sustainability.
a binding target to increase our energy efficiency by 40% for 2030 will save money for our industries and citizens.
‒ i voted in favour of this report establishing a common framework for energy efficiency labelling to ensure access to information in real time.
‒ the new energy efficiency labelling proposal sets up binding new rules regarding the a to g energy efficiency scale of household appliances.
the report demands the simplification of the current labelling system, relevant energy efficiency information on labels and advertisements, real-life testing conditions and transparent information for customers.
i voted in favour of this resolution that advocates a safe and clear labelling system that keeps pace with technological progress allowing customers to achieve higher energy savings.
‒ i have voted for this report on energy efficiency labelling that establishes a framework for labelling and consumer information regarding energy consumption for energy-related products.
‒ energy efficiency labelling enables consumers to make informed choices about energy-efficient and sustainable products.
this makes a significant contribution to energy savings and lower energy bills, while promoting innovation and investment to support the manufacture of increasingly energy efficient products.
the energy efficiency labelling regulation amends and improves certain provisions in order to clarify and update their content, taking into account the rapid technological progress made in recent years with regard to the energy efficiency of products.
i think it is important that member states can create incentives for the use of energy-efficient products.
increased attention should be paid to the accessibility of low-income households to energy-efficient products, thereby contributing to the reduction of energy poverty.
i would stress that the european union is committed to building a robust energy union and a forward-looking energy and climate change policy.
energy efficiency is a crucial element of the european union's 2030 framework for climate and energy policies.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation on energy efficiency, because today's vote sets out how the reclassification of products in the internal market of the european union from the perspective of energy efficiency will proceed.
i also appreciate that this regulation creates a database for informing consumers about health and environmental issues at european level, which the european union does not have at present.
one of these regulations concerns energy efficiency labelling.
what is essential is to provide citizens with information on the environmental impact of the product and its life cycle.
the energy classes currently defined on the a to g scale need to be redefined to take account of innovations in the field.
i voted for better functioning of maritime surveillance and for better solving the problems arising from this environment.
based in lisbon, the agency provides technical assistance and support to the commission and member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety, pollution by ships and maritime security.
i have voted for this report that will modify regulation no 1406/2002 for establishing a european maritime safety agency with the purpose of ensuring a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution by ships.
‒ national authorities performing coast guard functions are responsible for a wide range of tasks in diverse areas such as safety, security, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and law enforcement in general.
‒ national authorities that carry out coastguard functions are responsible for a large number of tasks in areas as wide-ranging as maritime safety, security, search and rescue, border controls, customs checks, environmental protection and law enforcement in general.
an important element in this regard is ensuring maritime security and safety, which involves in particular rescue at sea, border control, customs control and environmental protection.
the review is therefore intended to take into account the refugee and migration crisis, low levels of investment, high levels of youth unemployment, the need to strengthen internal security, crises in the agricultural sector, environmental issues, economic, social and territorial cohesion, increased pressure on development and neighbourhood policies, gender mainstreaming and payment arrears.
in this respect, it is recommended to apply flexibility mechanisms, subject to the guarantee of the eu's fundamental right, use extraordinary revenue, support measures following international agreements on climate change, reform of the own resources system, budgetary unity and greater involvement of parliament in decision-making.
i voted for the resolution on synergies for innovation because it underlines the urgent need to increase synergies between cohesion policy and other eu policies on competitiveness, in particular in the areas of research and development, ict, renewable energy and smes.
we must also strengthen economic growth and improve our long-term competitiveness; have a new ambitious industrial strategy building on and complementing the circular economy package; respond to climate change and ensure energy security.
common strategies are needed to respond to climate change and energy security, and also to ensure a coherent response to the increased influx of refugees, hence real concerns for citizens' security and, not least, the development of an ambitious external action agenda.
we stress that additional public and private investment is needed for energy transition, eco-innovative smes, research and education.
at the same time, efforts to achieve the energy union, to guarantee energy security and sustainable energy at affordable prices for all citizens and businesses, and to combat energy poverty, need to be stepped up.
the issues addressed in it include specific steps to continue improving the working and living conditions of european citizens, to strengthen economic recovery and competitiveness in the long run, to respond to climate change and to ensure energy security.
these include improving working and living conditions for european citizens, strengthening long-term economic recovery and competitiveness, creating jobs and generating prosperity, responding to climate change and ensuring energy security, a coherent response to the growing influx of refugees, addressing citizens' security concerns, an ambitious agenda for external action at global and neighbourhood level, adequate taxation policies for adequate resources, strengthening the community budget and financial instruments, completing the economic and monetary union, strengthening fundamental rights and democracy.
the hunts are thus in breach of international law and undermine the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
‒ the european union is one of the main international actors that consistently advocates for the protection of biodiversity in the world.
we are also starting to explore new fields of common action, such as energy, diplomacy, cultural diplomacy and economic diplomacy, but the strategy also states very clearly that what we are so good at, soft power, is not enough in these times.
not only has the international environment altered since 2003, but it has done so to our disadvantage: europe is confronted with conflicts all around it, which already spill into our own house!
madam high representative, you have shown the awareness of what the eu and china can do together, bilaterally but also in international fora – i am thinking of the g20 which will soon be hosted by china – but also on counterterrorism, cyber security, climate change and other reciprocal investment under the juncker plan and ‘one belt, one road’, where it will be necessary to address also the issue of protecting key critical infrastructure projects, including energy ones.
do not forget that one example where europe and china can cooperate together is the fact that china is building up an emissions trading system (ets) which is inspired by technical assistance from europe or the fact that china has established three main courts in its intellectual property rights (ipr) project.
the year 2015 has been an impressive one for international agreements and global governance, with cop 21, the sustainable development goals (sdgs), the revision of the un strategies for peace cooperation, the peace-building architecture and the women, peace and security resolution.
on climate change, we are finally on the right track with the paris agreement, which is the cornerstone of emerging global governance for climate.
we remain committed not only to implementing our ambitious domestic commitments but also to providing the necessary financial and technical assistance to developing countries in transition towards a low-carbon economy.
apart from climate, there are the two further issues i would mention.
in particular, i believe it is very important to stress the need to strengthen the cpd within the un structures in order to integrate more effectively all dimensions of sustainable development.
security at the level of the european union is increasingly fragile due to a large number of new and long-standing challenges, including violent conflict, terrorism, organised crime, unprecedented waves of migration and climate change, which are impossible to solve at national level and require regional and global responses.
i voted for a fundamental change to empower the un to organize and drive the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
i voted for this report that will improve peace and security, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development and climate change.
cooperation between the eu and the un will help address the increasingly unstable security environment and global challenges such as terrorism, unprecedented migration, and climate change.
the eu should step up its efforts to promote a safe and enabling environment, also taking into account the concerns of the uncrpd committee regarding the lack of a clear union strategy for the implementation of the convention.
‒ the energy drink industry’s voluntary code of practice for the marketing and labelling of energy drinks only commits not to market energy drinks to children under the age of 12. adolescents represent the largest group of energy-drink consumers, 68% of whom regularly consume energy drinks.
these beverages can contain up to 27g of sugar per 250 ml, more than the world health organization’s recommendation that adults and children receive no more than 10% of their daily energy intake from free sugars and that a further reduction to below 5% (approximately 25g) per day would provide additional health benefits.
therefore, i voted against the adoption of the draft commission regulation since excessive consumption of energy drinks has been linked to headaches, sleep problems and behavioural problems in children and adolescents who regularly consume them.
this motion for a resolution is adopted in the context of the commission's failure to establish specific nutritional profiles for certain foods, in particular energy drinks which are widely consumed.
this particular proposal by the commission would allow health claims on energy drinks despite their high sugar content.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to underline the importance of the two reports in this debate, 'the eu heating and cooling strategy' and 'towards a new energy market organisation'.
towards the end of this year, the commission will come up with new legislation on energy efficiency, the organisation of the energy market and the energy performance of buildings - legislative proposals that will play a major role in achieving the energy union objectives and have the positive impact we want on european union jobs and industry.
it is clear that we need a future-oriented energy market reorganisation that takes into account the new energy realities: the need to integrate renewables into the grid, wider tariff zones, short-term trading markets and, of course, the physical infrastructure to enable all this.
since heating and cooling account for around half of the final energy demand of the european union, it is important that this sector becomes more efficient in order to reduce dependence on energy imports, to contribute to reducing emissions, and to reduce costs for consumers, in particular those at risk of energy poverty.
i stress once again the importance of ensuring access to both short-term and long-term financing for investment in projects related to the modernisation of the heating and cooling sector, including district heating and cooling, the modernisation of existing infrastructure networks, the modernisation of heating systems and the switch to renewable sources.
mandatory targets on energy deficit must be accompanied, i repeat and emphasise, by adequate access to finance.
mr president, we are debating today a report of great importance for the european economy, the completion of the single energy market, a market which we want to be functional and efficient.
firstly, there is insufficient investment and a very slow pace of interconnection of national energy networks.
secondly, we are talking about the still insufficient harmonisation of national energy legislation.
we have countries where getting a permit to connect a company to the national energy grids takes over one hundred and fifty days.
finally, thirdly, we discuss the dysfunctions caused by some policies to stimulate renewable energy, which have led to excessive costs for intensive, key, strategic industries for the european union.
a new electricity market design must promote a secure, sustainable and efficient electricity supply that takes into account the dynamics of the relationship between renewable and conventional energy production.
price volatility is a signal to accelerate electricity market reforms and an important element in finding solutions at european level for the construction of future interconnections, lng terminals and energy storage capacities.
i would stress that conventional generation remains essential for maintaining the security of energy supply, something that the new design of the electricity market must take into account in order to ensure its proper functioning.
the use of national energy resources, the exploitation of hydropower in the case of romania, high-efficiency gas and coal-fired power plants benefiting from the latest technologies, can make a key contribution to the unlocking of the european energy market, decarbonisation and security of supply.
mr president, commissioner, cohesion policy and, by implication, territorial cooperation, is the visible arm of the single market, which aims to ensure the balanced and sustainable development of the regions of the european union.
climate change is a threat to some sectors and an opportunity for others, and demographic change and an ageing population are forcing new labour market policies.
the g20 was also an occasion for the us and china to ratify jointly – and i would underline the symbolic importance of that ‘jointly’ – the paris agreement on climate change.
i would like to begin by stressing the issue of development and the need to effectively implement the objectives of agenda 2030. as the rapporteur for the parliament on policy coherence for development, i was pleased to see that the issue of policy coherence for sustainable development was mentioned in the conclusions.
‒ in a european context marked by economic and social crises, the european union has the role of stimulating sustainable economic growth by exploiting the potential of innovation.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that smart specialisation strategies are an essential tool to strengthen research, stimulate innovation and encourage sustainable economic growth.
the aim of these strategies is to create knowledge-based, sustainable growth, balanced development and high quality jobs in all regions, not only in well-developed areas but also in regions in transition as well as in less developed, rural and island regions.
‒ the aim of these strategies is to create sustainable growth, balanced development and high quality jobs in all regions.
smart specialisation strategies can also be powerful tools for addressing energy, resource efficiency and energy security challenges.
the aim of these strategies is to create knowledge-based, sustainable growth, balanced development and high quality jobs in all regions, not only in well-developed areas but also in regions in transition as well as in less developed, rural and island regions.
these projects with concrete results in removing obstacles to development in security, transport, education, energy or health must continue.
‒ cross-border cooperation is an essential tool for the development of border regions with great potential in areas that go beyond regional policy, such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, energy, research, education, culture, health and the environment.
the resolution draws on examples of best practices of etc from the periods 2000-2006 and 2007-2013, finding that there have been great cross-border collaboration achievements made in areas such as mobility and regional connectivity, handling environmental challenges, education, employment as well as knowledge transfer and innovation.
the tecs bring clear added value to the europe 2020 objectives by improving regional connectivity, mobility and accessibility of services (including in the field of transport), transfer of knowledge and innovation, increasing the competitiveness of smes, quality branding and strengthening regional identity, addressing environmental challenges, better risk management and disaster response, strengthening institutional capacity and social capital, strengthening cross-border network structures and creating new partnerships.
‒ the setting up of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union legislation on emission measurements in the motor vehicle sector is a timely initiative to ensure environmental protection and to monitor closely the legislation in force.
‒ on 17 december 2015, the european parliament set up a committee to investigate alleged maladministration in the application of eu legislation on emissions from the motor vehicle sector.
i voted for the inclusion of additional meetings in brussels and strasbourg, for the exchange of views and for the continuation of the investigations into emissions from the motor vehicle sector.
‒ i welcome this report and the work of parliament’s special committee of inquiry into the car emissions scandal.
i hope this report marks the beginning of long-lasting changes to improve environmental standards and restore public trust.
‒ the setting up of the committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the motor vehicle sector (emis) was the european parliament's institutional response to the outbreak of the emissions test fraud scandal involving european car manufacturers.
the work of emis has thus focused in recent months on exchanges of views with representatives of the european commission, hearings of relevant witnesses and experts, and information missions to the joint research centre's institute for energy and transport (jrc-iet), the vehicle emission measurement laboratory (vela) and the type approval authorities in luxembourg and the vehicle testing facility in lambsheim (germany).
the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years.
members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years.
the members are appointed by the council after consultation with the european parliament for a renewable term of six years.
members elect one of their number as president for a renewable term of three years.
‒ leo brincat has been nominated by the maltese government (labour); he was formerly the environment minister in that government, playing a key role in the cop21 decisions earlier this year.
consequently, the analysis on the impact of policies in our ever-changing socio-economic environment was challenging.
as required under the energy union strategy, the commission must issue every two years a report on energy costs and prices, hence the new regulation will be a helpful tool for the commission’s work.
‒ the energy challenges facing europe include the dependence on oil and gas imports that has increased in recent years, the lack of diversification, high energy prices influenced by state-imposed energy taxes, the increase in global energy demand, as well as the integration and interconnection of energy markets and market distortions caused by different support systems.
meeting the eu's climate change objectives requires a package of measures, which involves, in addition to the use of renewable energy, assessing the benefits of low-carbon technologies compared to high-carbon technologies.
i voted in favour of the report on a new organization of the energy market, considering that the european commission's proposal for an energy policy involving both centralised and decentralised structures is correct and viable in the current international context.
‒ the future of the energy market in eu countries is one of the current topics at european level.
moreover, it was one of the catalysts from the outset of the founding act of the european union, an act directly linked to the management of energy resources.
on 15 july 2015, the european commission published a set of guidelines and objectives to regulate and unify the european energy market.
i support the ep motion for a resolution on the report 'towards a new organisation of the energy market'.
i believe it is time to complete the single energy market in europe for a secure, environmentally sustainable and affordable energy supply.
predictable energy prices and security of supply will raise household living standards.
‒ this own-initiative report comes ahead of the expected electricity market design legislation to be proposed by the end of 2016. part of the energy union, it concerns the rules for the electricity market and particularly trading, transmission and distribution of electricity.
thus the energy markets need to adapt.
we need to ensure a market design that is fit for the future, and one which works for consumers and industry, ensuring affordable energy.
‒ we need to ensure a market design which works for consumers and industry alike, ensuring affordable energy.
‒ the european future electricity market has three political objectives: the creation of an eu-wide electricity market providing clear price signals for new investments; provision of a european dimension to security of electricity supply; strengthening of regional cooperation on energy policy, in particular when there is investment in new energy production facilities, for interconnectors and funding rules, and for the integration of renewables into the european single market.
i have voted for this report that will ensure that energy policy objectives of security of supply, environmental impact and value for money can be achieved.
‒ the new energy union strategy provides new benefits for energy consumers, gives them a much wider range of options in participating in energy markets and ensures better consumer protection.
the full implementation of the third energy package in all member states is one of the most important steps towards a european energy market.
such a public tender, whether national or cross-border, should be technologically neutral and should also allow the participation of energy storage operators.
i stress the need to speed up the authorisation of energy infrastructure projects at all decision-making levels.
as the commission's proposals for a new energy market organisation concern exclusively the electricity sector, we invite the commission to consider revising the concept of the natural gas market to respond to the challenges in the gas sector.
‒ i voted in favour of this report and therefore voted in favour of the new energy union strategy, because we must all be aware of the importance of such a union for the european market and for consumers who will ultimately have a wider range of choices.
at the same time, the report emphasises a practical aspect: long-term planning of infrastructure development, reiterating the importance of renewable technologies in order to ensure the sustainability of this market.
‒ the increasing diversity of energy sources and the full integration of renewable energy into power grids require a new energy market design.
this will allow the eu to reduce dependence on centralised power generation and increase the use of many more localised sources of energy.
this vital transition will increase our energy independence.
i welcome the s&d’s approach to capacity mechanisms to ensure consumers get good value for money and to reduce the number of people living in energy poverty.
‒ the european union is currently facing a number of energy challenges, including dependence on oil and gas imports, lack of diversification, high energy prices influenced by state-imposed energy taxes, rising global energy demand, security risks for producing and transit countries, tackling climate change, slow progress on energy efficiency, increasing the share of energy from renewable sources, the integration and interconnection of energy markets and market distortions caused by different support systems.
in this regard, the commission considered that better integration and coordination of energy markets is required, by creating an eu-wide electricity market, creating a genuine european dimension for the security of energy supply and strengthening regional cooperation in the field of interconnections and support systems, as well as with a view to integrating energy from renewable sources.
however, the current situation is characterised by the predominance of national decision-making, which emphasises the need for consultation in the sub-areas of price-setting in the event of shortages, the extension of regulatory oversight at european level, increased interconnection, the use of energy from renewable sources, the subsidiarity of the european market organisation, price liberalisation.
‒ following the communication of the european commission of july 2015 on a new energy market organisation, this report highlights the need to reorganise the energy market and improve the regulatory framework in order to increase the use of renewable energy and fill existing gaps in legislation at cross-border level.
the report argues that the organisation of the energy market should be based on market-specific principles, as this could help to stimulate investment, guaranteeing market access for smes, and thus achieving a stable, integrated and smart energy system.
in this context, the report recommends that the commission, in its work on the new energy market organisation, seek to ensure a level playing field between european electricity producers and those in third countries, with the aim of providing european consumers with sustainable and affordable electricity.
the report therefore calls on the member states to encourage their use, given their essential role in the energy market.
i therefore voted in favour of the report on the new energy market organisation.
‒ i voted for the own-initiative report on a new energy market organisation.
the rapporteur believes that the european commission's proposal for an energy policy involving both centralised and decentralised structures is in principle correct.
‒ many european buildings are currently facing the problem of energy loss due to their inadequate insulation and old and inefficient heating systems.
at the same time, energy poverty affects almost 11% of the eu population.
it is estimated that the amount of heat energy produced by industrial processes and dissipated in the atmosphere or water, instead of being used productively, is sufficient to fully cover the heating needs of residential and commercial buildings in the union.
i welcome the initiative of the committee on industry, research and energy to initiate this report, considering that the correct application of the measures to develop a comprehensive and integrated strategy for heating and cooling offers both businesses and consumers in the eu a number of significant opportunities in terms of reducing overall energy costs for industry, boosting competitiveness and ensuring a reduction in costs borne by consumers, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
it is essential to make real progress in revolutionizing the heating and cooling sector as part of a wider reform of the energy system.
the main way to combat energy poverty is to reduce heating prices, ensuring that energy efficiency will increase significantly.
the strategy to increase the efficiency and sustainability of heating and cooling aims to address a complex issue: the distribution of elements referring to heating in several directives and legislative instruments such as the energy performance of buildings directive, the renewable energy directive and the energy efficiency directive.
i stress the importance of more extensive scientific research into the development of innovative technological solutions to ensure energy-efficient household appliances and all heating and cooling systems.
‒ gradual warming of the climate causes cooling that generates energy losses in buildings without adequate thermal insulation.
i voted to set aside at least 25% of the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund for the purpose of thermal renovation of properties.
the use of appropriate architectural solutions, insulation and reversible heat pumps, and the replacement of outdated thermal power plants with high-efficiency ones are concrete solutions to alleviate the thermal discomfort of the citizens of the member states affected by these climate changes.
‒ given that energy efficiency policies should focus on the most cost-effective ways to improve the performance of buildings by reducing heat demand and/or connecting buildings to high-efficiency alternatives, i consider it important to undertake extensive scientific research to develop innovative technological solutions to propose energy-efficient household appliances and heating and cooling systems that run on energy from renewable sources.
‒ heating and cooling accounts for roughly half of the eu’s final energy demand – which is why it is so important to reduce demand and make the sector more efficient, in order to reduce dependence on energy imports, reduce emissions, and bring down costs to consumers, especially those at risk of energy poverty.
it will feed into some of the upcoming legislative initiatives on energy efficiency, in particular the revised energy performance of buildings directive to be proposed in the autumn.
cooling is a growing concern directly linked to the gradual warming of the climate.
therefore, i consider that under the energy efficiency directive, member states should develop state building renovation plans with a view to making buildings energy efficient, not least by providing incentives for the renovation of buildings owned by individuals, and that these plans should also include specific measures for the most vulnerable groups, in order to contribute to the fight against energy poverty.
this will improve the performance and energy efficiency of the revised buildings to be proposed in the autumn.
i voted in favour of the report on an eu strategy for heating and cooling, in which i reiterated the importance of developing eu systems that provide incentives for the energy-efficient rehabilitation of public buildings, private and social housing, and for the construction of green buildings.
the eu needs to find a viable technological solution and legal framework to recover this energy loss.
member states should speed up the implementation of the energy efficiency directive, as stimulating energy efficiency in buildings is a key element that would help to alleviate energy poverty in households.
state building renovation plans should provide for support measures for people living in the most deprived areas and for vulnerable groups facing energy poverty.
‒ i welcome the commission’s strategy and fully support parliament’s report on the eu strategy on heating and cooling that seeks to improve our citizens’ comfort and progressively decrease their energy bill.
i have voted for this report that will ensure that energy is used more efficiently thus achieving co2 emissions reductions.
‒ i voted for the parliament's resolution on the eu heating and cooling strategy because establishing appropriate policies in the planning and implementation of heating and cooling infrastructure will have a direct impact on the energy system, energy efficiency and the economy in general.
industry needs clear signals to make the necessary investments to achieve the eu's energy targets.
i stress the need for ambitious and binding targets and a regulatory framework that stimulates innovation without creating unnecessary administrative burdens in order to optimally promote cost-effective and environmentally sustainable heating and cooling solutions.
‒ my endorsement for this report stems from its commitment to meet the goal of the eu’s greenhouse gas emission reduction under the climate agreement reached at the cop21 climate conference in paris.
the report outlines the strategy to reduce the eu’s energy dependency on fossil fuel imports by integrating heating and cooling into the electricity system.
the report emphasises that half of the eu’s heating and cooling usage stems from residential buildings, and thus provides a practical framework to decarbonise the energy sector by helping households access finances to invest in renewable and energy efficient technology.
i am also in support of this report because of its focus on consumers as the centre of its strategy and its goal to create an energy efficient market.
heating and cooling account for a significant proportion of household energy bills and approximately half of the eu’s final energy demand.
the modernisation of infrastructure and appliances could significantly increase energy efficiency, reducing pollution and energy dependence.
it is critical that cost savings are passed on to the final consumer, especially those who are already in energy poverty and those at risk.
‒ heating and cooling systems account for about half of the eu's energy consumption.
in particular, the energy efficiency of buildings is addressed by means of thermal insulation of older buildings, upgrading and even replacing old thermal power stations, and upgrading heating and cooling equipment (including boilers and air conditioners).
to address these problems, a substantial increase in european funding is needed, covering the thermal renovation of residential lots and the construction of innovative installations, as well as an increase in the use of renewable energy (in particular solar energy).
‒ heating and cooling account for the largest share of energy consumption at european level.
in this regard, this report underlines the need for a specific long-term strategy with renewable energy at its core.
the report thus highlights the major role played by new technologies based on water, air, solar energy, geothermal energy, etc.
in this context, it is considered that upgrading outdated and inefficient heating systems, better use of heat by district heating systems and a thorough renovation of buildings are some of the key elements that can enable a safer and more sustainable approach to heat supply.
the commission therefore proposes an attractive financing system, favouring the use of new technologies for heating households based on renewable energy.
furthermore, the report underlines the importance of scientific research to develop innovative technical solutions for energy-efficient and renewable heating devices and systems.
‒ the europe 2020 strategy provides for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ given that cohesion policy is the main instrument for growing investment and jobs in the european union, i believe that the acceleration of implementation, in particular the creation of projects with sustainable growth and quality job creation potential, with a focus on projects also launched in rural areas, to create new services and to help avoid depopulation of rural areas, should be monitored more closely.
their role is essential for regional economies, competitiveness and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
‒ sustainable and competitive tourism, reducing the isolation of inland and remote areas by improving their access to transport and energy services, diversifying tourism offerings and products, training and entrepreneurial skills in tourism, reducing climate change risks through investments in the water sector are just some of the priorities crystallized in the development of a viable eu strategy for the alpine region.
i voted in favour of this report, considering that all the players, parliament and the commission, need to be involved so that there is a coherent and common approach to sustainable development, the environment and energy to maximise the potential of the alpine regions.
connectivity and logistical difficulties for producers have often held back the development of mountain areas, the alpine macro-region being highly vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
however, the region has poor transport links and logistic problems for manufacturers, and suffers from the effects of the climate change.
‒ i supported this report because, on the one hand, it highlights the valuable experience gained from the implementation of the alpine convention, which serves the social, economic and ecological interests of the areas concerned impartially; on the other hand, there is a real concern with regard to the application of natural disaster risk management measures and climate change adaptation strategies.
the fragile environmental situation combined with the presence and importance of tourism present particular problems; the strategy must prioritise environmental concerns so that the economic opportunities remain sustainable and alpine heritage is protected.
in this case, the eusalp strategy covers 80 million people in 7 countries and 48 regions within and outside the eu, an area characterised by good interstate cooperation but with insufficient transport infrastructure, logistical problems for producers and suffering from the effects of climate change.
the strategy is based on a number of fundamental pillars, such as improving competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion, ensuring accessibility and connectivity for all inhabitants of the region and ensuring sustainability by protecting the alpine heritage and promoting the sustainable use of natural and cultural resources.
the eu's mission is to help reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty and migration in developing countries by promoting sustainable development, democracy, peace and security.
we want to make sure the atf, which is mainly development cooperation money, is not used for security purposes or border control, and only finances education, employment, good governance, environmental projects.
the areas that must be the priority targets of investment are education, jobs, good governance, environmental projects, i.e.
the proposed measures also include: promoting a family-friendly working environment, work-life balance plans, re-entry programmes, employee-employer communication interfaces, and incentives for businesses, in particular to ensure that citizens are not economically penalised for having children.
for the impact of this financial assistance to be sustainable, it is essential that young people are given real alternatives, access to quality education, jobs and inclusive policy.
we agree that there is no universally accepted definition of the concept, but social dumping, in its various forms, has not only economic, social, financial and budgetary effects but also environmental effects, which are not specified in this proposal.
coherent transport policy delivers benefits for manufacturers, consumers and the environment.
‒ inland waterways are an increasingly important mode of transport within the european union, mainly due to the low cost of freight transport and the low potential for pollution.
the union must be more ambitious and continue negotiations to include services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement or sustainable development.
while this development-oriented regional trade agreement currently only includes provisions on trade in goods, development cooperation and trade and provisions on sustainable development, it allows for the negotiation of additional provisions on services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement and enhanced provisions on sustainable development.
i welcome the fact that the agreement contains a relatively comprehensive sustainable development chapter.
it is essential to understand the best way to protect and monitor fundamental principles in the economic partnership agreement and implement the sustainable development chapter effectively.
i welcome in particular the fact that the agreement includes a chapter on trade and sustainable development and the commission’s commitment before the vote to actively encourage and support the involvement of civil society in the monitoring and scrutiny of the implementation of the agreement.
the current agreement, signed in june 2015, gives all these countries free, duty-free access to the european market, encouraging their sustainable development.
i voted for cooperation between the member states and the tunisian authorities to combat organised forms of illegal immigration, but also for continued support for sustainable economic development in this country.
in a unitary economic environment, this definition would be correct and would not raise any objection.
in the current environment, i believe that we should do everything possible to reach an agreement on rules for the information of non-professional investors.
europe owes a lot to small and medium-sized enterprises and must ensure an effective regulatory framework that encourages investment that promotes sustainable growth and quality jobs for smes.
poverty reduction is one of the five pillars of the europe 2020 strategy for sustainable growth.
we want to see if social policy ensures sustainable systems that are financially sustainable, and adequate systems that adequately protect people.
you know that in the new semester approach to social protection we are emphasising two points: sustainability and adequacy.
with this report, we will be able to achieve or improve several important things for european citizens, such as: reduced legal costs and red tape; reduced fragmentation of practices across member states and a move towards deeper integration of the capital markets in the eu; unlocked liquidity from institutional investors who are currently facing a low-interest-rate environment and sitting on capital; and harmonised investor protection rules across the different pieces of legislation.
the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the commission enables the european union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
member states, in cooperation with local and regional authorities, should effectively and promptly address the serious problem of unemployment and facilitate and invest in the creation of sustainable and quality jobs.
‒ i believe that member states, in cooperation with local and regional authorities, must find solutions to the serious problem of unemployment, facilitate and invest in the creation of sustainable and quality jobs, address the issue of accessibility for the most vulnerable groups by promoting entrepreneurship among young people by supporting the creation and development of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to increase the employment rate of women and men.
‒ the european union’s current growth strategy has five ambitious objectives on employment, education, social inclusion, innovation and climate/energy that should be reached by 2020. entitled europe 2020, its initiative regarding the agenda for new skills and jobs will help the eu reach 75% of the working-age population between 20 and 64 under employment.
‒ evidence that the illegal trade in wildlife has become the fourth biggest black market, after drugs, people smuggling and the illegal arms trade, underlines the fact that the importance of cites is not only environmental.
it recalls that the universal service must evolve in line with the technical, economic and social context and the needs of users, and that the postal services directive gives member states the necessary flexibility to take account of local characteristics and to ensure the long-term sustainability of the provision of universal services.
we must not forget that preventing environmental damage and the transition to a low-carbon economy is a societal challenge that also offers new business opportunities for businesses that bring green products and services to the market.
the resolution suggests ways to diversify channels of funding for smes, highlighting conditions that would create a conducive environment for sme financing.
in order to ensure a sound environment for businesses to grow, but also to enhance their job-creating potential, national and european policies need to address mainly issues of competence, regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens.
in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report, arguing for the importance of a stable environment and the need to reduce the burden on smes.
‒ i voted in favour of this report on access to finance for smes, as i believe that smes need a favourable business environment in which green ideas can be easily developed, financed and brought to market.
re-manufacturing, repair, maintenance, recycling and green design have immense potential to become engines of economic growth and job creation, while making significant contributions to solving climate challenges.
hence it is important to focus on fair competition, access to financing, an adequate regulatory environment, 21st century working skills and a good social dialogue in order to allow smes to create sustainable quality jobs.
we need education reform and a good social dialogue in order to allow for smes to create sustainable quality jobs.
hence it is important to focus on fair competition, access to financing, an adequate regulatory environment, 21st century working skills and a good social dialogue in order to allow smes to create sustainable quality jobs.
the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to enable the union to provide support to workers made redundant as a result of these structural changes, thereby contributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the cpd has much to contribute, not only to the revision of the cotonou agreement but also to the implementation of the sustainable development goals.
climate change is one of the issues that the eu and acp countries have to tackle as soon as possible.
another is addressing poverty and the fragility of states, as the root causes of migration, in a sustainable way.
i would like to underline the importance of achieving sustainable development goal 2, which aims to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030, notably by increasing the productivity of smallholders’ farms, and achieving sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems.
it is an open secret that logging companies buy, process and sell illegally harvested timber with no regard for environmental or other considerations.
forests cover significant areas of the planet and are important ecosystems both for humans and for the environment.
in order to achieve the objectives of the 2020 strategy for forests, i believe that the strategy for forests and the forestry sector needs to be strengthened by: combating deforestation and forest degradation, promoting sustainable forest management as a means of protecting biodiversity, combating desertification and responding to climate change, while ensuring that forest ecosystems provide goods and services, contributing to sustainable development and poverty eradication.
strong commitment, coherence and political support from all parties involved in the flegt action plan is needed to ensure that development and climate change policies place forests and the forestry sector at the heart of the green economy and highlight the benefits that forests can provide in a sustainable way, while ensuring their protection and combating illegal deforestation.
‒ the paris agreement, adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change, is one of the most important achievements of our time.
to prevent all of these natural disasters, the united nations has set a goal of limiting global warming to no more than 2 degrees celsius by 2100. the conclusion of the paris agreement and its signature in new york on 22 april 2016 marks a significant moment as the union and its member states have decided to act jointly, leaving the commission and the council to sign on their behalf.
the council decision on the conclusion of the agreement constitutes the necessary basis for the conclusion of the paris agreement by the eu and its member states, and i therefore support the recommendation of my colleague, giovanni la via, as it underlines the leadership of the union and its member states and their continued efforts to combat climate change internationally.
‒ the paris agreement is an ambitious agreement, legally binding, but also a benchmark for combating climate change and multilateralism.
global warming directly affects every eu citizen.
the transition to clean energy is necessary and resources must no longer be based solely on fossil fuels.
the agreement was signed by 187 countries, which cumulatively cover about 98% of total emissions, making climate change a global effort.
i voted for the formal entry into force of the paris agreement, but also for joint and effective cooperation between member states to achieve the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030.
in writing.
‒ the paris agreement is a historically significant landmark achievement for combating climate change and for multilateralism.
the adoption of the agreement and the cumulative announcements by the end of cop 21 of intended nationally determined contributions (indcs) by 187 parties marked a decisive turning point towards comprehensive and collective global action, and, when implemented, will definitively and irreversibly accelerate the transition to a climate resilient, climate neutral global economy.
this global action aims to put the world on track to avoid dangerous climate change.
i believe that the ratification decision on the conclusion of the paris agreement adopted under the unfccc will send a strong signal and highlight the leadership of the eu and its member states and their continuing efforts to address climate change at international level.
a historic vote that marks the first global climate deal, which is legally binding and will come into force in november 2016 – just in time for the cop 22 climate change conference in marrakesh.
‒ we have reached a world limit in the climate change problem.
i have voted for this recommendation, which will bring about important measures in achieving the eu’s objective for the global climate change issue.
‒ the 2015 paris agreement is the first multilateral climate change agreement covering almost all global emissions.
the agreement is a success for the whole world and a confirmation of the eu's orientation towards a low-carbon economy.
the energy union project provides a broader framework within which the eu can provide an appropriate enabling environment for the energy transition.
according to the international energy agency, full implementation of climate plans will lead to usd 13,5 trillion in investments in energy efficiency and low-carbon technologies between 2015 and 2030, with an annual average of usd 840 billion.
in addition, the future energy union research, innovation and competitiveness strategy will take advantage of synergies between the energy sector, the transport sector, the circular economy, as well as industrial and digital innovation.
this should lead to increased competitiveness of current and future european low-carbon and energy-efficient technologies.
the agreement itself is a clear message to investors in industry, business, civil society and policy makers, and reiterates in a broad consensus that the global clean energy transition is crucial at this time and will be achieved by phasing out fossil fuels.
the report also calls for the establishment of a strengthened framework for transparency and accountability and for the submission by all stakeholders of greenhouse gas inventories and the information needed to track their progress.
returning to the africa, pacific and caribbean agreement: it's very important to have a political dialogue with the countries in this region and it's very important to invest in their development, and here the private sector has a vital role because they have to make these investments and we have to make there sustainable development, development that goes into the future and not just for a year or two, especially in this context where we have a migration crisis, we are in the midst of a migration crisis and the main solution is to eradicate poverty and develop those countries so that people have jobs, stay at home, develop the economy in those countries and also, of course, condition the respect of human rights, respect for democracy, because only independent people can build healthy and free societies.
i voted in favour of this report, firmly believing that a new agreement, with the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) at its core, and the creation of robust monitoring mechanisms, is urgently needed.
the main objectives of the cotonou agreement are the reduction and eradication of poverty and the progressive integration of acp countries into the world economy, while respecting the objectives of sustainable development.
the private sector is at the heart of sustainable development.
sustainable development could provide an environment of international security.
i voted for continued cooperation between the eu and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states to address more effectively today's global challenges, such as climate change, food security, migratory flows, terrorism, extremism or international crime.
climate change is one of the issues that the eu and acp countries have to tackle, another is to address poverty and fragility of states, as the root causes of migration, in a sustainable way.
‒ i believe that the next agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) should be placed at the centre of a new agreement.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union's external policy in relation to the countries of africa, the caribbean and the pacific must be pursued, especially in the current political and economic context, and must have as its focal point the integration and sustainable development of these third countries through the trade relations they establish with european states.
however, their position is still quite difficult, which requires a new agreement that puts the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) at the forefront.
– mr president, dear colleagues, you know that i appreciate you very much, but do you not think that, before the disbursement of loans that is going to take place in october, the greek government, even though it probably does not have the necessary time, should nevertheless reach certain outcomes, if only in the fields of privatisation, pensions, and banking governance and in the energy sector?
that is what the commission will endeavour to promote - i repeat - namely the search for sustainable growth which creates jobs and which also respects the social dimension because it is absolutely essential.
a free interrail subscription would allow young people to discover europe's offer in time and would also promote a sustainable but underused means of travel.
and still we have not prevented people from drowning in the mediterranean, in incredible numbers in the southern mediterranean, and also here only a sustainable policy will help us solve this problem.
russia is not a european partner for humanitarian measures, just as it is not a european partner for energy projects like nord stream 2. ceta and ttip trade agreements must take into account the concerns of european citizens.
‒ i believe that long-term financial investment in food and nutrition security and sustainable agriculture must be mobilised to improve food security and nutrition through better governance and increased accountability, through systemic food and nutrition policies that take into account gender, sustainable agriculture, access to and use of natural resources, and the creation and expansion of inclusive and entitlement-based social protection systems, targeting in particular the most vulnerable and marginalised groups.
i would like to underline the importance of achieving sustainable development goal 2, which aims at ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030, notably by increasing the productivity of smallholder farms and achieving sustainable and climate resilient agriculture and food systems.
one of the global goals of sustainable development on the 2030 global agenda is to reduce poverty and malnutrition, which is why i support increasing the productivity of small producers in rural areas, the idea of sustainability in the agricultural sector and responsible management at european and global level in the food industry.
achieving the sustainable development goals implies a much more sophisticated management of natural resources than is currently in place.
adapting agricultural practices and prioritising resilience to climate change will be essential if we are to increase food production and improve diets without placing unsustainable demands on natural resources and ecosystem services.
an integrated approach which addresses issues including land use, agriculture, diet, and climate change is necessary if we are to achieve our ambitious global goals.
‒ the european union supports the achievement of the global sustainable development goals internationally agreed by the member states.
a concerted effort by the european institutions and eu member states, but also by developing countries, is needed to secure long-term investment in sustainable agriculture, responsible use of resources, elimination of waste, elimination of gender discrimination, public hygiene and protection of vulnerable groups.
‒ given the exposure of european industry to global competition, i believe that only an ambitious innovation policy, favouring the manufacture of high quality, innovative and energy-efficient products and promoting new production processes, will enable the european union to stand on its own feet in an increasingly competitive global context, thus allowing european industries to create r & d partnerships or strategic alliances and not limit their analysis to the internal market.
in addition, european industry also faces social and environmental challenges that it needs to overcome.
the eu needs to develop border adjustment mechanisms to avoid ecological dumping and dumping of cheaper but poor quality products.
if the eu imposes a set of environmental and social standards, then the same european union must protect its industry and anticipate socioeconomic situations that lead to the dissolution of industrial capacities and the loss of many jobs.
‒ the 2015 paris agreement is the first multilateral climate change agreement covering almost all global emissions.
the agreement is a success for the whole world and a confirmation of the eu's orientation towards a low-carbon economy.
the energy union project provides a broader framework within which the eu can provide an appropriate enabling environment for the energy transition.
according to the international energy agency, full implementation of climate plans will lead to usd 13,5 trillion in investments in energy efficiency and low-carbon technologies between 2015 and 2030, with an annual average of usd 840 billion.
in addition, the future energy union research, innovation and competitiveness strategy will take advantage of synergies between the energy sector, the transport sector, the circular economy, as well as industrial and digital innovation.
this should lead to increased competitiveness of current and future european low-carbon and energy-efficient technologies.
in this respect, the document adopted today reiterates the need for a european reindustrialisation policy that promotes cooperation between old and newly established companies, which can create a much-needed oxygen bubble in the business environment.
it should be noted that the assumption of social responsibility by all european companies is the foundation for the viable and sustainable reindustrialisation of europe.
compliance with a stakeholder engagement standard would lead, at a minimum, to the protection of workers, to the respect of their fundamental rights and to a viable and sustainable management of their careers, to ensuring cooperation and to valuing the involvement of all stakeholders in the decisions and actions of companies, to the development of fundamental and experimental research projects funded by structural funds and european investments in the sustainable development of european entities, communities and regions, etc.
we hope for a coherent strategy on european reindustrialisation policy so that european entities can address global social and environmental challenges.
‒ the caterpillar and alstom cases reflect an intensification of restructuring in several eu countries as a result of changes in the economic environment.
for this reason, stressing that the eu and its member states must coordinate their policies to ensure that they have sustainable and competitive manufacturing industries, i am voting in favour of the resolution.
madam president, in expressing commitment to a carbon—free future, the signature of the cop21 agreement represents a remarkable global achievement.
one such area would be carbon pricing, an issue rather left out of the paris agreement, but which could bear crucial importance in emissions reduction.
as opposed to emissions trading schemes – which in the past have often proved less effective because of the inflation in the tradable permits handed out – carbon taxes would represent a more effective way to reduce emissions: they would transform the cost of pollution from a negative externality into actual costs, favouring a change in polluting behaviour.
additionally, revenues from such costs could, in the end, be used for the financing of new renewable energy infrastructures, thus starting a new virtuous cycle.
i would like to thank once again ms schaldemose and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for all their hard work on this file, and i can declare here that the commission will consider all of the points made in the report, and also in this debate, in the future work.
materials not regulated by specific union measures endanger public health, the environment and people's trust in us.
it is clear that ensuring the consistency of the regulations on cmr, biocidal products, harmful substances and waste, and clarifying the role of the different institutions and bodies involved in this area are essential issues.
the new standards should promote financial stability, sustainable growth, and long-term investment.
the european union, as an international actor neighbouring this conflict zone, condemns the violation of international humanitarian law and urges the parties to the conflict to cease hostilities as soon as possible and to work towards a sustainable future for the syrian state, in line with un security council resolution 2254. in this context, the co-chairs of the international syria support group, the united states and russia, have an important responsibility for the resumption of negotiations.
mr president, the european union is the global leader in combating climate change.
at the paris conference we committed ourselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to 1990. what message are we sending to the people, to the politicians, to the investors, to the society?
that we have no time to lose, history is not waiting for us, and let's get off the train because the train has already left, let's get off the train that leads, whether we like it or not, to a low-carbon economy.
i want to make it clear that i am not in favour of introducing a tax on all financial transactions to finance climate change and here i voted against this paragraph.
‒ given that tackling climate change is a global priority, ensuring energy security, sustainable economic growth and sustainable job creation, i believe it is important to adopt a holistic and systemic approach to the development and implementation of policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on the one hand, and on the other hand i believe that research and innovation in the context of climate change policies and adaptations, as well as low-emission and resource-efficient technologies, are fundamental to tackling climate change in a cost-effective way, reducing dependence on fossil fuels and promoting the use of secondary raw materials.
‒ human activities represent the main cause for global warming, with widespread and substantial change occurring in natural and human systems all over the world.
i have voted for this motion for a resolution that urges countries to reduce their greenhouse gases, which are the main cause of the greenhouse effect.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un conference on climate change in marrakesh, morocco (cop 22).
as a member of the delegation to cop22 and as shadow rapporteur for the cop22 resolution in the itre commission, i stress that we must ensure energy security, sustainable economic growth and sustainable job creation alongside the fight against climate change.
climate investments require a stable and predictable legal framework as well as clear policy signals.
until a level playing field is achieved, the eu should maintain appropriate and proportionate measures to ensure the competitiveness of its industries and to prevent, where appropriate, carbon leakage, taking into account the need for coherence between energy, industry and climate policies.
a more ambitious target for energy efficiency in the european union can contribute to achieving an ambitious climate target, and at the same time reduce the risk of carbon leakage.
i also stress the need to prevent and alleviate energy poverty in order to protect and help vulnerable and poor households.
it is critical for the environment, and for the european industries working hard to reduce their emissions, that there is a global framework in place.
failure to reach this 2° target would be likely to cause significant environmental, economic and social pressures in the medium and long term.
‒ the adoption of the paris agreement was a watershed moment in the international community's fight against climate change.
in the context of the 2016 un conference on climate change (cop22) in marrakesh, the current resolution draws attention to the need for eu member states to ratify and implement the paris agreement without delay, assesses the state of implementation of the kyoto protocol, highlights the role of non-state actors in reducing emissions, the importance of climate finance and diplomatic dialogue with other international actors.
the importance of adapting industrial production, energy policies, research, innovation and digital technologies, and support for developing countries in this area is also mentioned.
i support the adoption of this resolution, which is so relevant to achieving the targets of stopping climate warming in the next period.
in 2014, the commission received around four thousand complaints for potential breaches of union law and launched around nine hundred new procedures for the non-application of union law by member states in the fields of environment, health, consumer protection, internal market and so on.
the report shows that areas such as the environment, transport, the internal market and services continue to be emerging policy areas, mostly due to the failure to meet commitments in 2014. the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased over the last five years and this reflects the effectiveness of the dialogue with member states in the context of the eu pilot procedure.
i have voted in favour of this report, which states that the environment, transport and the internal market and services were the policy areas with the most infringement cases in 2014.
in writing.
we would point out, however, that this in no way affects the prerogatives of member states to adopt, at national level, stricter social and environmental standards than those agreed at eu level.
‒ the commission’s 32nd ‘annual report on monitoring the application of eu law’ shows that the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased in the last five years, although environment, transport and internal market and services remained the policy areas in which most infringement cases were open in 2014. according to the commission, the decrease in infringement procedures reflects the effectiveness of their dialogue with member states.
‒ i have abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution that authorises the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize bt11 seeds following a risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity.
‒ i have abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution that authorises the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize 1507 seeds following a risk evaluation for human health and biodiversity.
‒ i have abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution that authorises the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize mon 810 seeds following a risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity.
‒ i have abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution that authorises the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified maize mon 810 products following a risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity.
‒ i have abstained in voting this motion for a resolution that authorises the placing on the market of products containing, consisting of, or produced from genetically modified cotton 281-24-236 × 3006-210-23 × mon 88913 following a risk evaluation to human health and biodiversity.
– mr president, honourable members, let me first thank you for introducing this very important topic of sustainable finance.
vice-president dombrovskis and i are jointly responsible for the capital markets union and this obviously has a close link to the sustainable finance issue.
last year we witnessed some landmark international agreements with the adoption of the sustainable development goals (sdg) and the paris climate agreement (cop21).
implementing a transition towards a more sustainable world requires determined efforts in many policy areas.
in terms of public finance, the eu is leading the way due to its commitment to spend at least 20% of its 2014-2020 budget on climate-related projects and policies.
the capital markets union initiative addresses the importance of long-term and sustainable investments.
in the most recent cmu communication, the commission has indicated a need for a broader strategy on sustainable finance.
this is necessary to support investment in clean technologies and ensure that the financial system can finance growth in a sustainable manner over the long term.
last july, a political agreement on iorp2 was achieved that will require occupational pension funds to consider taking into account environmental, social and governance factors in their investment decisions.
the commission is also assessing the follow-up to the recent public consultation on long-term and sustainable investment which emphasised the importance of environmental, social and governance issues for the long-term performance of companies and investors, and the challenges institutional investors faced in this area.
since sustainable finance has no boundaries, work must also be done at global level.
the commission supports the work of the fsb industry-led task force which will provide recommendations on climate-related financial disclosures early next year.
beyond relying on public finance and mobilising the private sector, the commission is also looking at how, and to what extent, climate change implications could affect the financial sector or even be a source of systemic risk to it.
last february, the european systemic risk board proposed enhanced disclosures and the incorporation of climate-related prudential risks into stress tests as policy responses to mitigate risks for the financial system.
this may be a suitable trigger to integrate considerations about long-term environmental risks and opportunities into the mindset of private investors.
this group will provide advice on how to mobilise private capital for sustainable and green investments; and to better understand and deal with the financial risks related to the transition to a low-carbon economy.
the expert group will be composed of senior experts representing various stakeholders of the green and sustainable finance spectrum.
mr president, there is no doubt that we are all experiencing the effects of climate change and no country is immune from these effects.
even in a country like my country, which is far from oceans, we have climate change that simply cannot be explained.
therefore, all efforts that are made to mobilise the financing needed to change the structure of economies from economies that are very fuel-intensive and generate greenhouse gas emissions to economies that substantially reduce these greenhouse gas emissions are welcome.
let's not forget that there was a commitment, made many years ago, by all the countries in the world, to make a fund of about a hundred billion dollars to finance the transition to an economy that responds to the challenges of climate change, and basically, not much of that commitment was realized at that time by the countries.
within the european union, we have a lot of funds that can be used from both the european union budget and from the resources of the member states, which can be used to encourage this transition to a green energy economy.
but i would like to mention here that the populations, the population, the citizens, have had a negative reaction to certain incentive schemes that we have devised, especially for those who invested in green energy (wind and so on), where they simply created incentives that were much too high for what was normal.
so i think we need to be very clear here, to think about what the optimal incentive size should be for those who invest in green energy.
it is important to engage iran in order to work together towards improving the environment for human rights and equally to win more regional stability and prosperity.
half of iranian households’ energy needs are met by natural gas.
iran has on average 300 days of sunshine per year; we need to take into consideration the potential of developing renewable energies in iran.
the potential for expanding cooperation between the two sides includes key areas such as trade, environmental protection, aviation, security (including the energy component), academic exchanges.
‒ the un global compact (with its 10 principles) required businesses to accept, support and apply in their environment a set of core values in terms of human rights, labour standards, the environment and the fight against corruption, which contributes to their acceptance by the socio-economic environment and, by implication, to their sustained development.
however, over time, corporations have often caused or contributed to human rights violations, especially of vulnerable groups: minorities, indigenous peoples, women, children, or environmental damage/destruction.
‒ liquefied natural gas plays a significant role in the union's energy system, in industrial production, as a source of heating for buildings, and as a support for energy from renewable sources.
the european union strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage thus aims to deliver on the union's intention to move to a sustainable, secure energy system, but also to limit dependence on external natural gas suppliers.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy efficiency targets and will continue to monitor the implementation of the energy union's energy efficiency targets.
the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage is designed to accelerate the process of achieving the overarching objective of a resilient energy union, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
‒ the eu has the ambition to transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system, treating energy efficiency as an energy source in its own right and developing low-carbon energy sources.
energy security can be most effectively ensured by better coordination of national energy policies, by establishing a real energy union with a single energy market and a common energy policy, and by cooperation between member states in this area, in accordance with the principles of solidarity and trust.
‒ the european union strategy on liquefied natural gas and its storage is one element of the energy union, which aims at a rapid transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system that is no longer dependent on external natural gas suppliers.
this energy security can be ensured by better coordination of national energy policies, but also by a common energy policy.
all eu citizens must have access to a secure supply of energy at affordable prices.
storage of liquefied natural gas, as well as increased efficiency and the use of energy from renewable sources, can play a vital role in reducing dependence on russian gas.
we voted to ensure that the necessary funding is provided for research into technologies using liquefied natural gas, so that in the future we can also reduce global co2, sox and nox emissions.
‒ the increase of liquefied natural gas on the global market is a good opportunity for the european union to diversify its energy supply.
the aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to reach its climate and energy targets.
i voted for the report on liquefied natural gas because the future european strategy in this area is one of the axes of the energy union.
the eu needs to eliminate dependence on external natural gas suppliers and build a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system.
therefore, i consider that doubling the capacity of the nord stream pipeline would have a negative effect on the energy union, the need to ensure energy independence from the russian monopoly.
the eu needs to focus on the full implementation of the third energy package and on strengthening a well-connected gas network across gas markets to ensure an integrated single market.
the eu must give this region the geostrategic importance it deserves for ensuring energy security and diversifying energy supplies from the caspian sea, the middle east and central asia.
‒ i am in favour of this motion for a resolution that aims to make the eu gas system more diverse and flexible, contributing to the energy union objective of a secure, resilient and competitive gas supply, thus taking full advantage of the potential of liquefied natural gas (lng) and gas storage.
‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas because i believe that this resource is vital for the energy security of the whole union.
the greenhouse gas reduction targets for 2050, the increase in import dependency for some member states to almost 100% and the limited number of suppliers available for these gases are very challenging for many member states.
‒ the european union is one of the world's largest energy consumers.
under these conditions, member states need the most efficient combination of energy sources, including liquefied natural gas (lng).
the eu has a significant pipeline, storage and regasification infrastructure, but it needs to be made more efficient and completed where needed, to allow all member states easy access to this resource and to avoid dependence on a single energy source or vulnerability to changes in international markets.
at the same time, however, this should not affect the development of renewable energy sources and the union's objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i think it's an important development in this area, providing a temporary solution to replace polluting energy resources.
in addition, emphasis has been placed on equal and non-discriminatory treatment, such as the protection of labour and environmental standards and the establishment of effective rules for the prevention, detection and sanctioning of cfp infringements, thus creating increased harmonisation and cooperation, as well as transparent and standardised control procedures.
as these controls are designed to protect consumers, the environment and ensure fair competition in this area, i look forward to the european commission's next report on the state of play of the fisheries control system so that we can work to improve it.
i believe that the time has come for a change, with a view to developing transport hubs which are an essential element for interconnecting long-distance, regional and urban transport, thus promoting efficiency, intermodality and the development of the regional business environment.
‒ it is well known that in central and eastern europe the transport infrastructure in most regions is underdeveloped compared to other european regions and that one cannot talk about economic growth, sustainable development, economic competitiveness, territorial cohesion and employment growth without an improvement in the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure.
at the same time it proposes means by which european traffic can be diverted towards more transport modes, taking thus into consideration environmental concerns and congestion problems.
sustainable funding is needed for the implementation of the european space policy and the deployment of the galileo and copernicus satellites, in order to be able to provide services in the shortest possible time.
the financial situation in some member states is still sustainable only as long as the european central bank maintains unchanged the two policies of quantitative easing and negative or very low interest rates.
the sustainable development goals must not be compromised.
only by creating new jobs and supporting business development and entrepreneurship can we have smart, sustainable growth.
and that amendment, unfortunately, fell through, but i'll say it again because it's a waste of european money.
in addition, i am of the opinion that an in-depth reform of the system of financing the union would make the eu budget more stable, more sustainable, and more predictable, while improving transparency for the citizens.
‒ plant health is very important for plant production, public and private green spaces, natural ecosystems, ecosystem services and biodiversity in the eu.
therefore, strengthening prevention, surveillance and rapid action measures in the event of outbreaks of plant pests within the eu is of major importance, starting from detection of eu quarantine pests in areas where they were not known to be present, surveillance, early eradication of new pest outbreaks, public information on the economic, social and environmental impact of plant pests, correlated with financial support for undertakings and competent phytosanitary authorities in the member states.
‒ plant health is a matter of the utmost concern for the european union and the common agricultural policy (cap), which supports the sustainable development of the agriculture, horticulture and forestry sectors.
‒ i voted for this report on the european semester for economic policy coordination that calls for the implementation of sustainable reforms to improve growth, cohesion, productivity and competitiveness following the slow growth rates of only 1.8% for the eu in 2016.
in writing.
however, more efforts are needed from the commission to support the sustainability of public finances in line with the stability and growth pact, making full use of its flexibility clauses.
we call on the commission to prioritise measures that reduce the obstacles to larger investment flows, obstacles which at eu level are caused by a lack of clarity on the strategies to be pursued, in particular in the following areas: energy, transport, communications and the digital economy.
secondly, the report stresses that the lack of sustainable investment and the shortcomings in completing the single market are depriving the eu of its full growth potential which is imperative given the deteriorating international environment, the failure to implement sustainable reforms and the divergences in the economic and social performance in different parts of the union.
thirdly, i am in full support of the report’s confirmation and welcome of the agreement of the paris climate conference (cop21) in december 2015 and its call on the member states and the commission to implement it.
we urge turkey urgently to act to defuse a tense political climate which creates an environment restricting freedom of speech.
all this in close cooperation, of course, with the international atomic energy agency.
the european union will continue to help states to fully implement the provisions of the amended convention and the atomic energy agency to promote universal adherence to it.
it is funded under the instrument contributing to stability and peace, in accordance with the eu cbrn action plan of 2010. the eu supports the central role of the international atomic energy [agency], and international cooperation for improving the level of nuclear security worldwide, and is looking forward to the international conference on nuclear security being organised from 5 to 9 december 2016 in vienna.
at e for energy it's a different situation.
let me remind you that ecsel gives europe a competitive edge in the domain of electronic components and systems and that iter is one of the most promising solutions to future energy demand and can contribute to addressing global warming and climate change.
member states that still need to define a legal environment for volunteers should do so as quickly as possible through the use of recommendations in the policy agenda for volunteering in europe and the european charter on the rights and responsibilities of volunteers.
the european farming model is based on food security and the balanced and sustainable development of rural areas.
fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
‒ the artemis joint undertaking has a key role, having been set up in 2007 for a period of 10 years, with the main objective of developing and implementing a research programme to develop key technologies for integrated information systems in different application sectors, with the aim of strengthening the competitiveness and sustainability of the union and facilitating the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
‒ the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years, with euratom, represented by the commission, euratom member states and third countries which have concluded cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled nuclear fusion as members of the joint undertaking.
the checks carried out have established that the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy has accounts which fairly present the financial position and the results of its operations and the cash flows for the financial year 2014, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, as i consider that this undertaking has managed the funds at its disposal in an efficient and transparent manner, continuously pursuing the purpose for which it was set up.
fields covered include air traffic control, carbon-lean energy, nanotechnology, computing technology, cleaner aviation technologies and nuclear fusion.
the experimental reactor will be able to produce more energy than the priming process would consume.
i voted for the 2014 discharge in respect of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
‒ in april this year, the discharge for the iter joint undertaking, a public-private partnership in the field of fusion energy, was postponed.
the security environment in the union's neighbourhood has deteriorated and become increasingly unpredictable.
the deteriorating security environment around the european union raises the question of the re-emergence of nuclear weapons as a means of active deterrence, as well as of possible nuclear proliferation, which runs counter to the principles of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, which underpin global efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, to promote the safe and secure use of civilian nuclear energy and to pursue the goal of a world without nuclear weapons.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation because i believe that every effort must be made to ensure a stable security environment.
this is crucial specifically in today’s deteriorating security environment from both a geopolitical and geostrategic perspective.
‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution, which supports the nuclear non-proliferation treaty which entered into force in 1970 through efforts to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons and promote the safe and secure use of nuclear energy.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i consider that the changes in the security environment around the world in general and around the eu in particular are worrying, leaving the possibility that nuclear weapons could once again become an argument for intimidation and negotiation.
‒ we are currently witnessing a considerable deterioration of the global security environment, not just the eu, generated by different regional and global actors, despite the eu's efforts in this area.
as such, it is necessary to strengthen the core non-proliferation and disarmament objectives of the three pillars of the npt (non-proliferation, disarmament and cooperation) for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
in this period, we are witnessing the deterioration of the european security environment, with old nuclear arms limitation treaties being denounced by some of the signatories, and international actors, state and non-state actors, resorting to the development and even the spread of these types of weapons with devastating impact on all humanity.
member states that still need to define a legal environment for volunteers should do so through the use the recommendations in the policy agenda for volunteering in europe and the european charter on the rights and responsibilities of volunteers.
starting from identifying the causes of youth unemployment and investing in education (formal, non-formal and informal), vocational training, health and employment, facilitating the transition to the labour market through coordinated local, regional, national, community (european) programmes, using the potential offered by new technologies and involving all national and european actors from all markets in the fulfilment of the two objectives of the youth strategy 2016-2018, we are offering the european union opportunities for sustainable development through proactive and responsible young europeans.
i voted for the development of the necessary instruments to modernise and ensure the competitiveness of economic sectors in rural areas in a sustainable and environmentally sound way.
diversification on farms, ensuring sustainable business development, and ensuring maximum opportunity and involvement of young farmers, women and other stakeholders in rural development are all key to building resilience in rural communities.
finally, i welcome the strong focus on diversification, environmental aspects, organic and quality food systems, short food supply chains, and fairness in the supply chain for primary producers.
the cap could bring in farm diversification, more opportunities and involvement for young farmers and a plan for sustainable business development.
in a context where the area of agricultural areas is in constant competition with development and protected areas, i believe that the cap must support more the sustainable development of agriculture, always with a view to creating quality jobs.
the common agricultural policy (cap) is designed to prevent this negative trend and to ensure the sustainable development of the areas concerned.
we want to ensure safe, secure and sustainable maritime transport that serves the internal market, connects europe globally and keeps the eu maritime cluster competitive.
regarding environmental aspects, limits on the sulphur content of shipping emissions were included in eu legislation in 2012 with effect from 1 january 2015. the international maritime organisation recently confirmed the global sulphur cap, as of 2020, in line with eu legislation.
in 2013 the commission set up the european sustainable shipping forum, bringing together stakeholders to facilitate the implementation of environmental legislation in the maritime sector.
this programme is aimed at providing guarantees to accelerate investments in clean maritime technologies and to help the industry to go beyond the current eu environmental legislation.
clean and sustainable shipping will be further promoted with the effective implementation of the directive on the development of alternative fuels infrastructure, ensuring the necessary standardisation and setting up of the basic fuel supply infrastructure between 2025 with eu financial support.
in the context of growing demand and a growing concern for reducing emissions, water transport can be the solution to sustainable and safe transport, giving a new impetus to economic development in riparian and coastal areas.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
the four principles of development effectiveness, namely ownership of development strategies, results orientation, inclusive partnership, transparency and mutual accountability, are indeed, as acknowledged in the draft nairobi outcome document, the driving forces for achieving the sustainable development goals (sdgs).
however, the success of development policies depends on the effectiveness of international development cooperation and cooperation on sustainable development.
the slow decline in global inequality cannot offset the environmental changes, the water shortage problem, and the partly resulting migration, some of the consequences of the population explosion.
in this context, i consider that the inclusion in this document of the principles of maximum sustainable yield and the landing obligation are fundamental for sustainable exploitation and for achieving the objectives of the cfp.
in this regard, in september 2012 the commission proposed a regulation to maintain the cod stocks necessary for the reproduction of the species and the sustainability of the fishery, a proposal supported by parliament.
as we have in mind a problem that affects not only romania, but all european states, i voted for ensuring a transparent environment, for the access of tax authorities to the financial information of persons and companies suspected of such acts, with the mention that these suspicions must be founded, to prevent abuses.
the commission should take further initiatives, including a proposal for an eu savings account and encouraging finance for sustainable and green investments.
europe faces multiple terrorist threats, but also economic issues related to cybersecurity and energy insecurity.
‒ the security environment surrounding the eu is volatile, complex and uncertain.
we need a fresh approach, taking into account the radically changed security environment, to define the eu's political ambitions, but also to make the eu a stronger actor in the field of security.
‒ due to the latest developments, europe’s security environment is facing new challenges thus calling for the revival of european security cooperation and integration.
‒ passenger shipping plays a key role in ensuring the sustainability of the european transport sector, and the potential of innovative technologies needs to be harnessed to make ships greener and more energy efficient.
given that europe's geography benefits from a number of waterways, their use would be appropriate both to reduce congestion and co2 emissions and to ensure better and faster transport services.
i voted in favour of this initiative because i believe that shipping is one of the most sustainable modes of transport and that it is necessary to exploit the potential of this type of transport in accordance with environmental standards.
however, efforts are still needed to exploit the potential of passenger shipping to achieve a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector.
accidents are very rare, making this mode of transport an ideal environment for passenger shipping.
‒ passenger shipping plays a crucial role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, in synergy with policies on safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness.
if the available capacity of passenger shipping were used more efficiently, we would not only reduce carbon dioxide emissions and traffic congestion, but also improve the transport system across the union.
‒ i support the rapporteur's position on the need to integrate passenger shipping into urban, regional and cross-border public transport networks, which allows for more efficient mobility and better environmental protection, in conjunction with the increased decongestion of land transport networks and comfort in cities.
on the other hand, it is beneficial for member states to promote and support local initiatives to activate inland waterway transport as a means of supplying crowded areas, including through the development of distribution centres in river ports and the development of passenger transport, in particular to make the areas concerned more attractive to tourists, as well as to move towards the increased use of greener, more energy efficient, lower emission vessels.
‒ a crucial role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector is played by waterborne passenger transport, which includes ferries, inland ferries, barges and cruises.
i have voted for this report that will enhance efficiency, environmental performance, quality of life and will provide lifeline services to remote communities.
we welcome the efforts of the passenger shipping sector to transition to greener, more energy-efficient, lower-emission ships, developed as part of a european framework aimed at greening shipping.
this would lead to cheaper, sustainable, more attractive and thus more economically competitive solutions.
secondly, the report calls on the european commission to integrate the npt into its eu-wide mobility strategy and to take action to reduce co2 emissions in line with the cop 21 agreement.
last but not least, i support this report because it reiterates the commitment of the ec and the member states to respect environmental standards to reduce air pollution, to monitor the quality of fuels and engines, with a view to using especially fuel-efficient ones.
‒ harnessing the potential of passenger shipping contributes to the eu's objective of becoming the world leader in maritime research and innovation, set out in its maritime transport policy strategy by 2018. the development of maritime passenger transport, boosted by the exponential pace of technological developments, as an alternative to road transport, is an environmentally friendly mode of transport with beneficial effects on the environment and on the quality of life of citizens.
in the context of growing demand and a growing concern for reducing emissions, water transport can be the solution to sustainable and safe transport, giving a new impetus to economic development in riparian and coastal areas.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change and its impact on the environment.
the shift in focus from 'aid effectiveness' to 'development cooperation effectiveness' is salutary in this context, but only to the extent that it is grounded in concrete results in terms of contributing to the achievement of sustainable and inclusive development.
the final objective is to achieve the sustainable development goals (sdgs) adopted by the un general assembly and to implement the addis ababa action agenda adopted in 2015. to achieve these objectives, the eu is supporting a number of innovative approaches to make each of the relevant actors achieve their goals, as well as new mechanisms such as triangular cooperation projects involving national parliaments, local authorities, civil society and the private sector.
our efforts should be directed towards creating an environment which allows the resumption of serious and effective negotiations.
in the relative benign security environment prevalent until now, the eu and its member states could allow themselves to actuate csdp mainly with crisis management performed in relative distant places.
the deterioration of the european security environment, generated by the increase in the number of threats, whether conventional or hybrid, has led to an increase in the sense of insecurity among european citizens.
the idea of standardization is completely out of place when we see what is happening in reality: the manipulation of the media by the russians, the blackmail with the energy charter and the illicit financing of organizations and political parties, including in this parliament.
mr president, commissioner, environmental care must be a permanent concern, because it can help reduce health-related costs and save lives.
i'm a proponent of improving the quality of the environment.
however, i believe that any action we take in this respect must take into account the reality on the ground, the correlation between the proposed emissions targets and the country's gdp, the investment and re-technologisation opportunities, the pace of research in this area.
mr. president, health care caused by pollution costs us between 330 and 940 billion euros a year.
however, they have not led to exhaustion and eliminated pollution, but on the contrary, we continue to have cardiovascular disease due to pollution and also to have respiratory disease.
it must be said very clearly that these are premature deaths caused by pollution.
maybe they go to places where nothing is happening, but they just go to the sand and not to people and to eradicating pollution.
secondly, pollution is an economic problem, not just an environmental problem.
very simply: it needs to be monitored carefully, money needs to be spent transparently and we need to check where it goes and what happens to it, and we also need to invest in innovation to actually eradicate pollution and not just talk about it for years.
in europe, the total external health costs associated with air pollution are estimated at eur 330-940 billion per year.
although action has been taken to reduce air pollution in the union, many member states do not comply with agreed standards.
the eu is thus still far from meeting its long-term objective of adopting and complying with the pollution limits recommended by the 2005 who air quality guidelines.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that to take a sustainable path, europe will have to show ambition and not just stick to the current legislation, and without the application of effective basic legislation, member states will not be able to meet their emission reduction targets.
‒ the proposal for a directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec leads to a different positioning for certain member states.
i consider that the emission reduction targets in this directive need to be realistic and feasible in order to reduce the negative consequences of air pollution on human health, while at the same time considering that they need not affect economic development.
air quality is an environmental and human health issue that knows no borders, directly affects every citizen of the european union and requires immediate action.
after many years of neglect, air pollution has returned to the centre of the political agenda as a major public health concern.
in europe alone, the total health costs associated with air pollution are estimated at eur 330-940 billion per year.
although action has been taken to reduce air pollution in the union, many member states do not comply with agreed standards.
the european union is still far from meeting its objective of adopting and complying with pollution limits.
‒ we must urgently tackle premature deaths as a result of toxic air pollution – which amount to over 400 000 in the eu.
around 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to levels of air pollution deemed damaging to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected.
i agree to support the full inclusion of ammonia but to exempt emissions of enteric methane produced by ruminant livestock from the directive.
i welcome the fact that we raised the overall level of ambition of the directive, by changing the ceilings for nitrogen oxides (nox) and setting binding targets for 2025 to ensure linear reduction of emissions.
it is important to establish requirements for drawing up and updating of national air pollution control programmes and ensuring emission reductions from road transport and other sources.
‒ i believe that action at european level in the field of environmental protection must be real and that the correlation of reduction targets with each country's gdp and investment, re-technologisation and research opportunities must be taken into account.
i think that environmental care has to be permanent because the impact of an unhealthy environment on the population can be devastating, but we have to consider other aspects that affect the population.
‒ we voted in favour of this directive which is an important step in addressing the high risks to human health and the environmental impact of air pollution.
it has been found that there are 400 000 premature deaths every year due to air pollution, with an estimated economic cost to health of between eur 300 and 900 billion every year.
high levels of air pollution, which are harmful to human health, affect around 90% of europeans.
member states must take measures to reduce air pollution and implement the directive, and step up their ambition in the fight against air pollution.
‒ ranked as a top health hazard in europe, air pollution is the cause of premature death of hundreds of thousands europeans.
a rational solution is to transform primarily our urban systems by adopting for example low-carbon mobility and energy efficiency strategies, hence applying stricter binding targets for eu member states to reduce their atmospheric pollutants would be a driver for a sustainable and greener adjustment.
i voted in favour of the report on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants because ambitious targets for the period after 2020 are essential in order to save lives.
‒ i have abstained from voting this report on emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants.
‒ i voted against this report because i believe that the emission reduction values in this directive should have been realistic and feasible to have a sure target, namely to reduce the negative consequences of air pollution on human health.
‒ i voted against the report on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants because i considered, together with other romanian meps, that the european union's ambitions and objectives in terms of reducing the effects of pollution at european level must take into account gdp, the capacity for medium and long-term investment, the technological and economic development of the member countries.
as regards the effect of imposing this proposal in romania, i considered it imperative that the percentage of reduction of polluting emissions established by this proposal be realistic and relevant and not adversely affect the economic and industrial process in romania.
air pollution leads to chronic, debilitating and fatal diseases which are, in many cases, avoidable.
‒ given that we cannot say that we have clean air at the end of 2016, the proposal for a directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants bodes well.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and by 2030 and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. of course, reaching national emission limits by each member state requires european financial support for each polluting sector, depending on the degree and intensity of the negative impact of the respective pollutants on human health and the environment, so that the desired european green economy is achievable.
‒ air pollution has reached alarming levels in the member states of the european union.
every year, no less than 400 000 premature deaths are caused by pollution, and the economic costs are estimated at around eur 300 billion.
it is also estimated that almost 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to this type of pollution that is harmful to human health.
for these reasons, the european union has decided to adopt regulations to significantly limit this negative phenomenon and to halve the number of premature deaths by 2030. toxic emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, volatile organic compounds other than methane and ammonia are targeted.
although the resulting document could have been more ambitious in terms of targets, it is a decisive step in the fight against pollution and needs to be adopted as soon as possible in order to generate concrete positive effects.
‒ the european security environment has deteriorated considerably, becoming increasingly volatile, complex, dangerous and unpredictable.
‒ the deterioration of the european security environment in recent years, manifested by the multiplication of conventional, unconventional and hybrid threats, calls for the strengthening of the union's common security and defence policy (csdp).
the report proposes a detailed and in-depth review of the csdp, taking into account the fact that the european security environment has deteriorated considerably, becoming increasingly volatile, complex, dangerous and unpredictable.
moreover, this motion neglects the significant impact such measures can have on european farmers, regarding their productivity, competitiveness, and sustainability.
we invite the commission and the member states to fund research and innovation in the field of sustainable and cost-effective alternative solutions for pest control products, with the aim of ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
‒ i voted for this resolution because of doubts about the process for approving active substances and the possible implications for health and the environment.
in this case, the risks relate to mammalian toxicology, ecotoxicology, and the environment.
in addition to being a security issue, wildlife trafficking also endangers biodiversity and ecosystems.
it is essential to protect vulnerable and endangered species of flora and fauna to meet the un’s sustainable development goals.
such a regulatory initiative is salutary, as wildlife trafficking is a negative phenomenon, organically linked to other forms of serious, organised crime, with a negative impact on biodiversity, ecosystems, member states' heritage, natural resources and species conservation.
we need to understand better, commissioner, that small transport enterprises are inherent in european mobility, smes are creative, innovative, but they need to have a favourable environment to develop.
the chaotic regional context massively impacts jordan’s economy, social systems and public services, which makes its debt ratio barely sustainable.
thanks to our work in the european parliament the commission will have to propose, in addition to this year’s eur 200 million, an extra macro-financial assistance operation of at least the same amount in 2017. the second macro-financial assistance package will help the country to cover part of its external financing needs in 2016-2017, while supporting reforms aimed at alleviating the balance of payments and budgetary needs, improving the investment climate and strengthening economic integration with the eu.
i voted in favour of this report, taking into account that the existence of more secure and efficient occupational pensions will contribute to the adequacy and sustainability of pensions by increasing the contribution of supplementary pension savings to pension income.
for the first time in eu legislation, environmental, social and governance factors have been introduced concerning investment decision, by also avoiding stranded assets due to social and environmental risks through an ex-ante risk assessment.
as such, this initiative to encourage member states to create adequate, sustainable and secure occupational pension schemes, provided through institutions for the provision of occupational pensions, is welcome.
the european parliament also calls for the rights of religious minorities in syria, including christians, to be respected in order to ensure a climate of tolerance, which is so necessary at this time.
turkey is a key partner of the european union in energy, military, trade, cultural security, etc.
this will be beneficial for simplifying the operations of smes at european level and for generating sustainable economic growth.
in this way, we will not only preserve biodiversity for future generations, but also improve and strengthen the eu's security framework.
i therefore support the european union action plan which is part of the eu's response to the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
wildlife trafficking has devastating consequences for the sustainable development and for the well-being of the local populations which are affected by it.
‒ wildlife crimes poses a real threat to biodiversity and is currently being regarded as a security issue in some source countries.
in this context, it is necessary to regulate this practice, which is considered a threat to biodiversity at european level and to international peace and security, with the involvement of organised crime groups, appropriately.
the eu action plan for 2016-2020 has been drawn up in response to the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which calls for urgent action to eradicate poaching and trafficking of protected species.
the eu and its member states are responsible for preserving biodiversity for future generations.
trafficking in wildlife has a major negative impact on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of the countries of origin, natural resources and species conservation.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a regulatory and administrative framework is needed to encourage investment and access to finance, while ensuring sustainable growth and quality jobs in small transport enterprises.
i certainly agree that smes in the transport sector contribute to making mobility in the eu more efficient, but they need to create contexts that generate new opportunities for sustainable development, precisely because of the complexity of the sector (e.g.
we demand that this plant strictly comply with international nuclear safety and environmental requirements.
the european union solidarity fund (eusf), established in 2002, is a non-reimbursable financial instrument needed for emergency and rescue actions by authorities following natural disasters that have a direct impact on people's lives, the natural environment or the economy in a specific affected region.
this is because the evidence shows that, as a result of climate change, natural disasters within the eu are continuously increasing in number, severity and intensity.
the impact and importance of the eusf in promoting sustainable solutions is enhanced if, in this context, other european structural and investment funds (esi funds) are also used appropriately and synergistically by national, local and regional authorities, in particular for the purpose of preventing natural disasters, underpinned by effective specific strategies.
micronesia currently has a democratic political system that respects human rights and gender equality, and its relationship with the eu generally involves cooperation on climate change and environmental protection.
the island state cooperates very well with the eu, especially on climate change and human rights, and has significant development potential in tourism, services, fisheries and agriculture.
moreover, we must ensure that the european data protection authorities keep their rights to independently assess the data protection environment, as the current wording would solidify the status for the us, regardless of what changes they would make to their internal legislation on data protection.
moreover, we must ensure that the european data protection authorities keep their rights to independently assess the data protection environment, as the current wording would solidify the status for the us, regardless of what changes they would make to their internal legislation on data protection.
the economic partnership agreement will also foster job creation through sustainable investment for ghanaians.
i therefore support the decision of the commission to amend the 2016 budget and increase the budget article 13 06 01 ‘assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment or the economy.’
in writing.
it is offset for eur 575.0 million against the unallocated margin under sustainable growth: natural resources (heading 2) in 2017 and for eur 507.3 million in 2017, eur 570.0 million in 2018 and eur 253.9 million in 2019 against the unallocated margins under administration (heading 5).
the case of energy commissioner miguel arias cañete shows that the current system does not suffice.
the case of energy commissioner miguel arias cañete shows that the current system does not suffice.
although the provisions of that directive establish that the holders of offshore licences are strictly responsible for preventing and repairing all environmental damage caused by their oil and gas operations, the directive does not regulate liability for civil damage to natural or legal persons or matters relating to criminal liability for offshore accidents.
in his report the rapporteur has focused on the importance of updating existing liability systems in the member states to ensure the application of the polluter-pays principle not only to environmental but also to traditional damages (bodily injuries/ property damages/ pure and consequential economic losses).
‒ it is well known that offshore oil and gas exploration, production and production activities require a high level of protection due to the major impact on all stakeholders and, in particular, on the environment.
eu action in this area must, as a matter of urgency, be based on the principles of precaution, prevention and sustainability and be internationally harmonised.
clearly, the polluter pays for the social and economic damage, as incidents in the eu oil and gas sector have serious and lasting, direct and indirect repercussions not only on the environment, but also on various sectors of activity, especially the 'blue economy' sectors (coastal tourism, fishing, etc.)
as such, it is essential to implement a legislative mechanism, based on the assessment of the transposition and application of drm and dso, which is necessary not only for adequate and effective compensation/compensation, but also for the remediation of traditional damage, applicable throughout the eu, for all categories of damage to the environment, to persons (natural and legal), to the community, to the economy, to society in general.
‒ the scope of this report is to underline the importance of updating existing liability systems in the european union, such as the offshore safety directive, to ensure the application of the polluter-pays principle not only to environmental but also to traditional damages (bodily injuries/property damage/pure and consequential economic losses).
i strongly support the call for a successful and timely holding of elections, in full accordance with the congolese constitution and the african charter on democracy, elections and governance and insist on the congolese government’s responsibility to guarantee an environment conducive to transparent, credible and inclusive elections as soon as possible.
i voted in favour of the resolution on access to energy in developing countries as sustainable access to affordable and reliable energy is a fundamental right for both eu citizens and third country nationals.
first, the eu needs to develop a framework to tackle energy poverty within the governance of the energy union.
the european commission should set targets for member states and third countries with which the eu has intergovernmental agreements on energy poverty and set key indicators for energy poverty.
i believe that for european citizens, the eu needs to focus energy efficiency funds and aid for self-generation to target consumers facing energy poverty and low incomes.
with regard to the energy situation in third countries, the eu should follow the eu development policy objectives of the lisbon treaty and monitor potential energy security and governance issues in third countries.
energy development in these countries will also contribute to health, education, as well as telecommunications and internet connectivity.
‒ i have voted for this motion for a resolution regarding access to energy in developing countries.
access to affordable, reliable and safe energy is crucial for the satisfaction of basic human needs and rights, and accelerates development.
‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i support the rapporteur's position on the need to develop renewable energy and ensure access to clean energy for developing countries.
sustainable and secure energy production has implications in all areas of a state's development and is of paramount importance for the living standards of all citizens, especially those on low incomes.
in this context, i support the european commission's efforts to boost the development of renewable energy technology in africa.
‒ access to energy, especially in developing countries, is essential not only for economic activities, energy being a key driver of development, but for meeting people's basic needs.
sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is a fundamental human right and a universal sustainable development goal.
moreover, energy poverty is a global challenge that also affects europe, and energy security is a constant objective, as access to energy resources can give rise to conflicts, riots, armed insurrections and can quickly become a matter of international, economic or national security.
as such, access to renewable energy (solar and wind) is a necessity and a desire not only for europe.
while energy poverty is predominantly found in rural and semi-rural areas, the greatest challenge is to ensure access to energy in urban, highly industrialised areas.
i am in favour of this procedure because it has great potential for the economic environment.
by introducing a tendering system based on criteria of efficiency and transparency, we have a chance to ensure an open environment for competition, which i hope will ultimately translate into better services for passengers.
here i would like to remind you once again that we need sustainable fisheries, both to secure a future for our fishermen and to protect our deep—sea environment.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 13 december 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by christian ehler and luigi morgano, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, and the committee on culture and education, on a coherent eu policy for cultural and creative industries (2016/2072(ini)) (a8—0357/2016).
– madam president, honourable members, on behalf of the commission i would like very much to thank the committee on culture and education and the committee on industry, research and energy for this joint report.
the second challenge is an adequate regulatory environment.
the commission calls for reinforced cross-sectoral cooperation around ccis because culture and creativity cannot be seen in isolation from other sectors of the economy and public life, such as regional development, education, industry, tourism, health and environment.
we need to create an ecosystem for creativity and innovation, and this involves investing in education and training, in local development and in supporting entrepreneurship or supporting the commercialisation of the products and services offered by these sectors.
– mr rübig, you are a specialist on energy: would you not consider that we must raise the level of ambition for renewables and energy efficiency and develop further provisions on energy poverty, whilst avoiding hidden subsidies for mature technologies?
commissioners, i too support the need for a clean energy legislative package.
i speak from the perspective of my country, which, although it has a low per capita income, is in first place in the percentage of renewable energy used!
the energy mix is subsidiarity under the treaty, and countries have different energy resources and you have to take that into account!
as a former industrialist, i know that when i wanted to save energy, i had to invest.
my country still produces energy from solid fuel!
why is there no money allocated for switching from one energy production system to another?
the clean energy proposal promises to increase gdp by 1% over the next ten years and create 900 000 jobs.
the commission must, however, put the necessary legislation on the table to ensure the necessary transition to sustainable energy.
this transition should focus on energy efficiency, renewable energy, smart infrastructure and on finding european-level solutions for interconnections, lng terminals and energy storage capacities.
however, it should not be overlooked that the production of energy from renewable sources requires the continuity of conventional energy production.
the exploitation of hydropower in the case of romania, of high-efficiency gas and coal-fired power plants, benefiting from the latest technologies, can make a key contribution to unlocking the european energy market.
the development of renewable energy implies the creation of a new energy market design, which ensures a level playing field for all market participants.
legislative proposals should enable consumers to control energy costs and have access to the full real costs of electricity supplied, including those associated with transmission and distribution.
however, in the context of the volatile situation in libya and the eu-wide migrant crisis, it would be an important advantage to establish an extended partnership with algeria, which is already an important economic partner of the union, in particular in the energy sector.
i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe it is essential to promote sustainable development in marine ecosystems, precisely to protect marine diversity and deep-sea species.
‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the final agreement negotiated with the council representatives is a good one, which brings improvements to the legislation on the protection of the deep sea environment.
given the fragility of this type of marine environment and the fact that the diversity and quantity of deep-sea fish stocks are at risk due to their slow regeneration, i believe it was extremely important for the eu to adopt a comprehensive and firm regulation in this regard.
i appreciate that this agreement imposes high standards of environmental protection, protects deep-sea biodiversity and respects the common fisheries policy and its objectives.
‒ in general, promoting sustainable development means including environmental protection requirements in the definition and implementation of eu policies and actions.
as regards deep-sea fishing, the need for regulation (in accordance with the precautionary principle) derives from the need for long-term sustainable exploitation of these stocks, not only to prevent significant harmful effects on vulnerable marine ecosystems, but also to ensure the conservation of those fisheries resources.
thus, fishing activities should be made subject to a prior environmental impact assessment, adopting, where appropriate, measures to close areas with vulnerable systems, specific measures to prevent significant effects on vulnerable marine ecosystems, conservation measures to protect vulnerable marine ecosystems.
in the interest of environmental protection, it is beneficial to phase out fishing methods that are highly damaging to vulnerable marine ecosystems, while presenting high levels of unwanted deep-sea species catches.
in order to protect the vulnerable marine ecosystem on the seabed, the european institutions have been engaged in a stricter regulatory process since january 2014. the agreement currently reached provides for a freeze on the fishing footprint, defining the area in which fishing activities are allowed.
the report draws attention to the fact that the cultural and creative industries are at the heart of a dual and delicate ecosystem between large, internationally competitive groups and innovative smes and start-ups, which are constantly renewing the area, preserving and promoting diversity, creating jobs, but are sometimes fragile, especially in terms of access to markets and finance.
‒ in general, the situation of women in europe is not adequate to their role and importance in ensuring the sustainable development of society.
we are all convinced that there is no sustainable development without human rights, and there is no sustainable security without fundamental freedoms.
i believe that human rights must be a major cross-cutting element in the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
mr president, today, when human rights are under threat worldwide, when more and more people are fleeing from war and armed conflicts, and when there are more than 250 million children alone living in countries affected by conflict, many of them forcibly displaced, coherent and strong eu action is ever more important in order to support the development of long-term sustainable solutions in areas of conflict and oppression.
on all the current crises, from syria to libya, to the work we are doing in these very minutes and hours on aleppo, trying to guarantee the protection of civilians, all the current crises, all the work we do and also on all the global issues from sustainable development to climate change, the european union and the united nations are natural partners and we are working together on a daily basis.
the last few years, despite all the crises and all the difficulties inside the united nations, we have also managed to show the incredible potential of a more cooperative global governance, from the deal on iran’s nuclear programme to the quartet report on the middle east, from the paris agreement on climate change to the sustainable development goals, the international community has delivered on many of the challenges it has faced.
but it is due to the easiness with which confusion and manipulation percolate in an environment with many alternative sources of information.
in these circumstances, price volatility is particularly severe in the agricultural sector, which is vulnerable to fluctuations in domestic and external markets, global consumption trends and climate change.
this agreement would allow ecuador to strengthen its new guidelines on the promotion of sustainable economic and social development policies.
‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. the european parliament encouraged the entry into force and full implementation of this agreement without delay, considering that this would allow ecuador to continue its new guidelines aimed at stimulating the country's sustainable economic and social development policies in a complicated regional and international context.
i voted for ecuador's accession to this trade agreement, an agreement that will help the sustainable development of all parties involved in a region that is increasingly oriented towards asia and the pacific.
‒ i support the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru, as it will open up markets and increase the stability and predictability of the trading environment.
however, the agreement will not only secure access to markets; more importantly, it will also create a stable and predictable environment that will help boost and diversify trade and investment on both sides.
the report underlines that monitoring, evaluation and follow-up of existing agreements must be a key priority of the common commercial policy and that the commission has an obligation to inform parliament about its activities related to the implementation, monitoring and follow-up of this agreement, in particular with regard to the sustainable development obligations as set out in the european parliament's resolution of 20 november 2015.
in writing.
the present project thus aims to support historical fishing rights in this area and at the same time to ensure an efficient and sustainable fish stock management system, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
it ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden operating in the area comply with the relevant laws, regulations and control and enforcement measures for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in the skagerrak.
‒ i voted in favour of this report to ensure reciprocal access to the skagerrak for vessels from denmark, norway and sweden for the conservation and sustainable use of living resources.
the present project thus aims to support historical fishing rights in this area and at the same time to ensure an efficient and sustainable fish stock management system, which is why i voted in favour of this initiative.
it ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden operating in the area comply with the relevant laws, regulations and control and enforcement measures for the conservation and sustainable use of the living resources in the skagerrak.
this agreement ensures that fishing vessels from denmark, norway and sweden operating in the area comply with the laws, regulations and control and enforcement measures for the conservation and sustainable use of living resources in the skagerrak.
i therefore support a liberalised market in which all companies use and are obliged to apply the same rules, but in a competitive environment.
‒ the 4th railway package will create a more competitive rail sector by encouraging competition and innovation in domestic passenger markets while meeting the targets to reduce emissions.
i also think it is important to stress that by adopting this package, rail passenger services will be an alternative to other types of passenger transport services, which are less cost-effective and have a lower environmental impact.
‒ domestic rail passenger transport is important from a social point of view, but also from the point of view of the environment, individual mobility and passenger safety.
multimodal public transport plans shall be sustainable, coherent and efficient so as to provide quality and efficient rail transport services in a cost-effective manner, in accordance with the criteria of punctuality, cost-effectiveness, frequency of services, customer satisfaction, quality of rolling stock and modal sharing of public transport.
‒ this report aims to create a framework to improve port performance and transition transport and logistics requirements, necessary to achieve a more efficient and sustainable operation of the ten-t. these changes require modernisation of port services and operations and the creation of framework conditions to attract new investors.
‒ the report aims to contribute to the objective of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network by creating a framework to improve the performance of ports and help them cope with changing transport and logistics requirements.
this practice started with the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community, signed in 1951. the research funded covers production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvements and workplace safety in relevant sectors.
i voted for the report on the adoption of the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel because, at this time and in view of the energy market situation, it is important to facilitate access to funding through simplified rules and a proportionate alignment with the horizon 2020 rules.
this financial instrument should be used to find solutions for the modernisation of energy technologies in the coal and steel sectors and the improvement of energy efficiency, especially in eu member states with limited budgets and dependent on coal mining.
i believe it is very important to assess the impact on employment of workers and local communities of emissions reduction and energy consumption.
the european union's relations with the rest of the international communities also serve to affirm and promote values and interests, but also contribute to the protection of citizens, peace, security and sustainable development of the planet, solidarity and respect among peoples, free and fair trade, poverty eradication and human protection, but in particular to the protection of the rights of the child and the development of international law.
‒ the eu is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state collapses, hybrid threats, terrorism, climate change, organised crime, energy and cyber insecurity, and the eu will only be able to respond effectively to new challenges if its structures and member states cooperate in a joint and truly coordinated effort in the cfsp/cfsp context.
this insecure environment for farmers is a long-term threat to european food independence.
‒ agricultural markets are subject to successive shocks in the two market components (demand and supply), the structural elements of agriculture and the price of agricultural products, with agricultural supply being affected by climate change and related phenomena (drought, flooding), the effects of pests, structural factors, environmental and animal protection policies, trade policies, etc.
the committee on petitions reported better and faster petition processing in 2015. annual statistics show that the majority of citizens ask parliament for help on issues relating to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights.
‒ most citizens tend to search assistance from the european parliament for matters regarding environment, justice, internal market and fundamental rights.
closer international relations will not only provide access to new markets, but also allow the eu to ensure high standards of safety and security in international air transport as well as to work with others more effectively to address the impact of aviation on the environment and to safeguard fair competition in an increasingly globalised and liberalised aviation market.