tax policy has a significant impact on the environment for job creation and i believe that preserving tax sovereignty and tax competition within the union is the right solution.
i also think it is important to highlight the importance of promoting traditional trapping methods, which have been used in the past and protect fish stocks and the ecosystem.
‒ as i have stressed on many occasions, sustainable development must be the eu's top priority when it comes to economic issues!
the multiannual recovery plan adopted by iccat in 2006 was established to halt further declines in bluefin tuna in our seas and to maintain its stocks at sustainable levels.
i do not wish to question the legality of these steps, but i urge that in the current growing economic environment we allow the greatest possible scope for market competition, thereby ensuring the sustainable development of the eu in all market segments.
it is important that the commission undertake an in-depth review of existing competition instruments and, in the light of new challenges, create conditions that will continue to provide an environment that supports entrepreneurship and the development of smes, which are the engines of growth and employment.
there is a need to facilitate access to finance and entrepreneurial opportunities for women entrepreneurs and to create an environment that enables women to realise their potential and become successful entrepreneurs and innovators.
a society that wants to be sustainable must promote and appropriately reward responsible motherhood, not punish it with income cuts and lower pensions.
i also see the need to adapt the business culture to the digital environment and to protect consumers as essential.
the resolution also points out that citizens' and businesses' trust in the digital environment is essential for the growth of the digital economy, with the need to improve data protection, security standards and consumer protection.
to make this happen as soon as possible, i support simplifying the european regulatory environment and leveling the playing field between companies that produce personal protective equipment as soon as possible, thereby also helping to improve working conditions for eu workers.
the directive has made a significant contribution to the establishment and functioning of the single market and has harmonised the conditions for the marketing and/or putting into service of the gas-fired equipment covered by it, taking into account the safety risks associated with gas and the rational use of energy.
i find the provisions dealing with the rules that appliances must comply with to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning to be a great help.
the report harmonises the conditions for placing gas-fired equipment on the market at eu level, thereby reducing the safety risk associated with such equipment and promoting the rational use of energy.
it is important to know that carbon monoxide poisoning is one of the leading causes of death in the eu and we must support all efforts in this direction.
i also voted in favour of the resolution because europe needs a legal framework in the field of appliances burning gaseous fuels that improves regulation and simplifies the regulatory environment.
i expect the new regulation to ensure, through its application in practice, that appliances burning gaseous fuels and their accessories meet harmonised requirements ensuring a high level of protection of health and safety of persons, domestic animals and property and that energy is used in the most rational way possible.
in writing ‒ the proposal for a regulation harmonises the requirements for cableway installations and their placing on the internal market of the european union, thus unifying the regulatory environment.
in writing ‒ by the european parliament resolution of 25 november 2015 on the commission delegated regulation of 25 november 2015 amending annex iii to the regulation of the european parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences, we empowered the commission to adopt delegated acts to establish or amend annex iii, thereby granting a requesting country specific incentives for sustainable development and good governance by including it in the list of beneficiary countries under the scheme of generalised tariff preferences.
in writing as a doctor and a father, i was concerned to learn that the delegated regulation in question allows 30% of the energy in baby food to come from sugar.
i think that in the current trend of increasing childhood obesity, there is no need to increase the energy intake of children in such a needless way, and therefore to go against the health of the next generation.
the commission's 2014 activity report highlights problems and breaches of eu citizenship rights in the areas of fundamental rights, discrimination, free movement and the environment, which the committee on petitions should investigate.
it will cover a number of areas, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, and the establishment of various sectoral cooperation frameworks, such as education, energy, environment, justice and home affairs.
this treaty will help to promote increased political dialogue, trade integration and democratic principles, and will provide opportunities for cooperation in areas such as education, energy or environmental protection.
the gsp also includes provisions to promote european standards in areas such as competition, markets, intellectual property, consumer protection, energy and the environment.
in writing ‒ the european institutions' examination of the emissions-forgery scandal by a major multinational company such as volkswagen is a necessary step towards restoring consumer confidence.
the european union has decided to set up a commission to measure emissions in the automotive industry, the results of which will be very important for our citizens who are concerned about environmental protection.
in writing in september of last year, information about emissions violations by volkswagen, europe's largest car manufacturer, came to light.
violation of emission limits means that cars produce more nitrogen oxide or carbon dioxide than is allowed by standards, which can cause various health problems for the population.
i therefore welcome the establishment of an inquiry committee on emissions measurements, which will contribute to better monitoring of compliance and thus to protecting the health of the general public.
it is important that we properly investigate the co2 emissions scandal and, above all, that measures are taken in the future to prevent car companies from cheating.
just a few days ago, the very difficult climate change negotiations in paris ended, and a climate agreement was born that has yet to be ratified by individual states.
the eu 2020 strategy also sets the objective of reducing co2 emissions, and i therefore welcomed the european parliament's interest in ensuring that large companies in the automotive industry comply with declared emission values, so that consumers are not misled when buying a car and, ultimately, so that we protect the environment.
environmental standards in the european union are among the highest in the world.
to this end, instruments promoting democracy, the rule of law and sustainable economic development should be used.
‒ this resolution seeks to set the un agenda at the human rights council by speaking as one eu voice on migration, climate change, lgbti rights, russian aggression and the middle east peace process (amongst many others).
most citizens ask the european parliament for help in areas such as justice, the environment, the internal market and fundamental rights.
most of the petitions submitted concern the areas of justice, the environment, the internal market and fundamental rights.
we hear a lot about the importance of technological and market innovation for sustainable economic growth.
but along with this must come pressure to end unfair practices and improve environmental and social standards in chinese industrial production.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution.
since air pollutants do not respect borders and travel thousands of kilometres before they settle, the problems caused by air pollution must be addressed at international level.
the ratification of the amendment will be a significant step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing ‒ the problems caused by air pollution must be tackled globally at international level, as several studies show that air pollutants can travel thousands of kilometres before they settle.
the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was the first instrument in this field.
to date, eight protocols have been annexed to the convention, the most important of which is the 1998 aarhus protocol, which deals in particular with emissions of lead and mercury into the air.
the proposal for a council decision is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment.
the decision to adopt amendments to the 1998 heavy metals protocol, which has been transposed into eu law by several acts, strengthens the limits for dust emissions from large stationary sources, which is in line with already adopted eu legislation.
in writing air pollution is an unpleasant and dangerous phenomenon because it is not visible to the naked eye and its extent cannot be determined immediately after the pollution has occurred.
at the same time, pollution can travel hundreds or even thousands of kilometres through the air, with potentially negative effects on human health.
for these reasons, it is important and appropriate that environmental legislation on air pollution be continuously improved.
i also see the preference for the best technologies that have been developed so far from an economic and technical point of view, the so-called bat, as an essential condition for any new legislation on environmental protection.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is intended to ensure the protection of the human environment from air pollution.
in writing ‒ the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions such as lead, cadmium and mercury into the air.
it requires the parties to reduce their total annual emissions of these three metals below their 1990 levels or below the levels of either 1985 or 1995. the protocol aims at reducing emissions from industrial sources, combustion processes and waste incineration.
in writing ‒ in this legislative resolution, the european parliament gave its consent to the amendment of the 1979 protocol on heavy metals to the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
the objective of this protocol is to reduce and control emissions of heavy metals such as lead and mercury, in particular from industrial sources, combustion processes and waste incineration.
of course, all these changes and restrictions will require the introduction of appropriate measures at the level of the parties, which may not be too far from slovakia, but i think that in view of the negative impacts of heavy metal emissions on health and the environment, as well as the impossibility of controlling emissions at national level, which is caused by the rapid and uncontrolled spread across national borders, such international regulation is very important.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution.
air pollutants travel thousands of kilometres before they settle, so the problems caused by air pollution must be addressed at international level.
the convention, which entered into force in 1983, is the first international legally binding instrument to establish a framework for monitoring and reducing the adverse effects of transboundary air pollution.
the purpose of the 1998 aarhus protocol is to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants.
the ratification of the amendments will be a significant step towards achieving a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to ensure the protection of human health and the environment from air pollution.
the convention was subsequently joined by eight protocols identifying specific measures to reduce emissions of air pollutants.
the draft council decision includes amendments to the protocol which are an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment and concern persistent organic pollutants.
they are able to persist in the environment for long periods of time and are transported over long distances.
the amendments introduced by the new version of the protocol will contribute to the protection of the environment by better regulating dangerous emissions.
i strongly welcome and support the motion for a legislative resolution and agree with the rapporteur that the european parliament should approve it, thus contributing to the protection of the environment, the protection of the air and the health of millions of people.
‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is intended to ensure the protection of the human environment from air pollution.
i voted in favour of this amended protocol, which includes seven new substances, updates the implementing requirements for several substances, updates the limits for emissions of pcdd/pcdfs (dioxins/furans) from multiple sources and adds pcbs (polychlorinated biphenyls) to the list of substances subject to annual total emission limitation and reporting obligations.
‒ i have supported the motion for a resolution of the ep on the proposal for a council decision adopting amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution is intended to ensure the protection of the human environment from air pollution.
the problems caused by air pollution must therefore be addressed at international level.
it established a framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution.
the ep's support for the council's draft decision is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from cross-border air pollution.
‒ i strongly support a stricter limitation on total annual emissions of air pollutants.
the objective is to establish, inter alia, a work programme that fully takes into account the need for targeted action to reverse the current trend in the spread of undeclared work and to increase the number of regularised jobs that provide decent livelihoods and useful services to clients, while contributing to fair competition in the market and sustainable financial stability.
the loss of biodiversity has a negative impact on nature and humans, undermining the earth's natural resilience.
the main causes of decline are habitat change, pollution, over-exploitation of resources, invasive alien species and climate change.
efforts to halt the loss of biodiversity failed in 2010. in 2011, the eu developed a new strategy.
the ecological footprint of the eu-28 is twice the size of europe's biological capacity.
i agree with the report that more political will and a political priority for biodiversity conservation would be needed to achieve concrete results.
full implementation of the existing nature directives, the birds and habitats directives is essential for the implementation of the whole biodiversity strategy.
the amendment of the directive to the extent that it would endanger biodiversity is to be avoided and further innovative solutions are needed.
in writing ‒ according to the eurobarometer survey on biodiversity, at least 80% of european union citizens consider the impact of biodiversity loss to be serious.
however, the european effort to halt the decline in biodiversity ended in failure in 2010, and a new strategy was set in 2011 with six objectives to help halt the global level of biodiversity loss.
last year, however, according to the official report, alarming findings were confirmed, suggesting that without additional efforts by the european union, the targets proposed by the council will not be met by 2020. however, biodiversity conservation and investment in nature are not only socially but also economically necessary, and biodiversity and its great intrinsic value must be protected in order to preserve the planet in the best possible condition for future generations.
in writing ‒ preserving biodiversity for future generations is a complex and sensitive process.
the loss of biodiversity will negatively affect all future life on earth, affecting entire generations of humanity.
i will support all proposals that seek to preserve biodiversity, integrate nature and landscape protection into all policies and reconcile economic development with biodiversity protection.
in writing biodiversity is an integral part of the natural environment.
we must be responsible for the environment that affects us directly.
the state of the environment has a direct impact on human physical and mental health.
the european union's biodiversity strategy is therefore justified, and even more so its mid-term review.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new strategy for biodiversity.
i believe that the outcome of today's vote will contribute to the protection of the environment.
the protection of nature and biodiversity must be part of eu policies.
it is encouraging and motivating to see that targeted efforts and investments in nature and biodiversity are indeed delivering results.
i appreciate that the eu has a natural interest in addressing these protected areas and preventing further loss of biodiversity.
i consider the area of biodiversity to be key not only because it is important for human health, but also because it provides immensely important social and economic value.
i believe that targeted and adequate funding for biodiversity will not only help us to halt the process of biodiversity loss, but will also make a significant contribution to the creation of new skills, jobs and entrepreneurial opportunities.
i supported the resolution, but i expect that the commission and the eu member states will be much more rigorous in the coming period in examining the measures that should be implemented on an ongoing basis in the field of development cooperation in order to minimise any adverse impacts on biodiversity, and in imposing sanctions on violators if they are not implemented.
in writing ‒ biodiversity, or the variety of life on earth, is a widely recognized value that is key to ensuring a quality of life.
at the same time, eurobarometer surveys show that the population of the european union is not indifferent to the deteriorating state of biodiversity.
this is why parliament has started to assess the situation of biodiversity in the middle of the european strategy.
the report therefore calls for much greater efforts to halt the overall trend of biodiversity loss, as well as better implementation of existing legislation and mainstreaming biodiversity.
the rapporteur also rightly pointed out that economic development and nature conservation are not mutually exclusive, but that many jobs depend on the good state of biodiversity, while the member states have to spend huge sums of money every year to repair damage to the natural environment.
however, i believe that alongside investments in filtration systems, member states should also address the sources of pollution.
what we need more than carbon filters is a change in the careless approach to the use of these substances, whether in agriculture and livestock farming or, for example, in the mass consumption of hormonal contraceptives.
the agreement has significantly deepened the political association of georgia with economic integration in the european union, which has led to the need to adopt a mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences contained in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
‒ by the european parliament's resolution, we asked the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision and to submit a new legislative proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 to take account of the frequently expressed comments of member states, which do not only concern the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
‒ taking into account the protection of human life, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to the authorisation of genetically modified food and feed, such a legislative proposal should be addressed and decided by each country individually.
therefore, we called on the commission in the resolution to submit a new legislative proposal on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to amend regulation (ec) no 1289/2003 to take account of the frequently expressed comments of member states which do not concern only the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution calling on the commission to submit a new legislative proposal, on the basis of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 to take account of the frequently expressed comments of member states, which do not only concern the safety of gmos for health or the environment.
in writing ‒ it is estimated that around 430 000 europeans die prematurely due to poor air quality, largely due to nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions.
the findings showed that in the automotive sector there is a significant difference between the level of emissions when measured under laboratory conditions and when measured in real driving conditions.
on the way to our goals, we must take all measures to protect the environment, but we must also take into account the social aspect and employment in this sector.
in writing in the european union, more than 400 000 people die each year as a result of air pollution.
the controls must be designed to produce concrete results and thus reduce air pollution.
but we also need to protect the environment.
for this reason, when voting on the article 106 objection concerning emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles, i voted against this resolution.
in writing ‒ last year, fraud was revealed by some car manufacturers in their emissions reports, and it is therefore very important that you properly investigate this co2 emissions scandal and above all that you take measures to prevent car manufacturers from cheating and to protect consumers and the environment.
the eu 2020 strategy has one of its measurable targets to reduce co2 emissions, so i welcome the commission's compromise proposal on measuring emissions from motor vehicles in real use.
i think the commission's proposal is sufficient to reduce co2 emissions in the car industry and to protect the environment.
in writing - protecting the environment is very important to me.
the introduction of real driving emission testing is a significant step both in reducing environmental pollution and as a preventive measure against a repeat of the volkswagen scandal.
i think that the introduction of an additional test to the original laboratory tests, by which emissions are measured under real conditions, is an ideal and ambitious means of doing so.
we hear a lot about the importance of technological and market innovation for sustainable economic growth.
these include consumer protection, health, education, social affairs, waste management and the protection of personal data.
i believe that tisa is an opportunity for the eu not only to consolidate its position as the world's largest exporter of services, but under certain conditions it can also be a suitable trigger for inclusive growth, sustainable development, reducing poverty and inequality and creating new jobs.
improving the business environment would help to reduce the regional disparities that are a reality in serbia.
‒ the european council decided on 28 june 2013 to open negotiations with serbia on eu accession, the monitoring process for this country was completed in march 2015 and the commission has now submitted to the european parliament a progress report on serbia for 2015. it notes that serbia has taken a significant step towards normalising relations with kosovo, and has made significant progress in the areas of the business environment, the reduction of the budget deficit and the labour market, including labour law and employment policy.
in other areas too, kosovo is at an early stage of development whether it is a functioning economy, high unemployment, especially among young people and women, insufficient skills needed for the labour market, insufficient business environment, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing ‒ this particular situation of islands must be taken into account as a natural feature which has a negative impact, directly or indirectly, on the attractiveness of islands and consequently creates obstacles to their sustainable development.
i believe that we should focus on all the eu regions where there are specific obstacles that impede their sustainable development.
in writing ‒ the main objectives of cohesion policy are to reduce economic, social and environmental disparities between regions and to achieve polycentric, harmonious development.
it is important for the development of islands to exploit all possible synergies between the european structural and investment funds and other union instruments in order to offset the disadvantage of islands and to improve their situation in terms of economic growth, job creation and sustainable development.
it is therefore crucial how the european commission intends to support local and regional authorities in the future, in order to strengthen their role and influence in the management and use of the structural funds, in order to maintain and increase economic growth and promote sustainable jobs.
in writing multi-level governance and partnership principles support the promotion of the eu's core policy objectives of economic growth and sustainable development through the involvement of local and regional authorities.
local and regional authorities are currently facing a variety of challenges, from globalisation to energy security to increased urbanisation, which the structural and investment funds are designed to address.
‒ strengthening the influence and role of local and regional authorities in the management of the european structural and investment funds can strengthen the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the european union and, in particular, bridge the gap between regions and contribute to the objectives of sustainable and inclusive growth.
but as long as our companies have to adhere to strict safety and environmental standards, china has been solving its economic problems by massively subsidizing its steel exports.
sustainable public finances and investment in science and research are the foundations of economic stability and create the conditions for further growth.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution because i see the need to invest in social development as an option to achieve sustainable and inclusive economic development.
the commission and the member states should in future focus on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are a key element in ensuring sustainable and inclusive development and job creation and in closing the gender gap in self-employment.
i believe that it is necessary to help create an environment favourable to economic initiative and entrepreneurial development.
‒ i supported the draft resolution on the 2014 annual report of the european central bank, which states, inter alia, that the unemployment rate in the euro area is expected to decline slowly from 11.6% at the end of 2014 to 10.5% at the end of 2016. the same forecast projects an improvement in the fiscal outlook for the euro area, with the expected government deficit falling from 2,4% in 2014 to 1,7% in 2016 and the government debt from 94% at the end of 2014 to 92,5% at the end of 2016. the report notes that low energy prices could also help the economy recover.
the report stresses that ambitious agreements between the three advanced economies in question should reasonably address investment, trade in goods and services, e-commerce, public procurement, energy, state-owned enterprises, competition, anti-corruption, regulatory issues such as sanitary and phytosanitary restrictions, technology research and, in particular, the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises.
these are countries characterised by strong rule of law, respect for human and social rights, and strong protection of nature and the environment.
agreements between the three advanced economies must address in a meaningful way investment, trade in goods and services, e-commerce, public procurement, energy, state-owned enterprises, competition, anti-corruption, regulatory issues, technological research, the needs of smes, but also others such as environmental protection and consumer protection.
‒ the eu regulation/proposal establishing a framework for access to the market for port services and financial transparency in ports aims to contribute to a more efficient and sustainable operation of the ten-t by creating a framework that improves the functioning of ports and helps them to adapt to changed transport and logistics requirements.
‒ european ports have a great potential to create a competitive environment on the world market and to offer jobs to many people.
at a time when all member states must necessarily participate in the consolidation of public budgets in the interests of financial sustainability, it is particularly important to prevent any waste and fraudulent activities (illegal and illicit trade, smuggling, money laundering, corruption, non-transparent public procurement, etc.)
it saves energy, it reduces emissions, it creates jobs.
in writing ‒ the objective of this directive is to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels, thereby limiting the harmful effects of those emissions on humans and the environment.
the purpose of this directive is to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels.
this is expected to reduce the adverse effects of emissions on human health and environmental quality at the same time.
the amendment of the directive also aims to align union legislation with international law concerning new global standards for sulphur in the environment.
for these reasons, i hope that the proposed directive will contribute to reducing the release of harmful substances into the environment.
the budget of the european union should therefore support the policies of convergence, integration and cohesion based on the protection and promotion of entrepreneurship, the creation of decent, quality and stable jobs, the sustainable use of natural resources and the protection of the environment through the achievement of the europe 2020 targets for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the aim is to achieve a more autonomous, stable, simple, fair, sustainable and predictable revenue side of the eu budget, while reducing the burden of excessive expenditure from national budgets and improving transparency and visibility for citizens without increasing the overall tax burden on citizens.
i also feel that the elements mentioned are important in the practical application of better law-making tools such as public and stakeholder consultation, impact assessment of european legislation, cost assessment of its implementation for producers, workers, final consumers or the environment, etc.).
the eu-philip morris international tobacco agreement, which has been regulating the fight against smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products since 2004 with the aim of reducing the prevalence of smuggled cigarettes on the eu black market, expires in july 2016. however, the market and regulatory environment have changed since its entry into force.
despite the strong relationship with kazakhstan, we have to point out the growing pressure on independent media outlets and the environment in which civil society works.
this should particularly apply in a pre-electoral environment so that voters can freely choose their candidates.
‒ the european union has long maintained high standards of protection for public health and the environment.
according to several experts and meps, the european commission could adopt an even more ambitious regulation and should address a number of shortcomings in the future, such as the fight against antimicrobial resistance or environmental protection by introducing a single decentralised assessment.
i think it is important that the regulation addresses the issues of how to improve access to veterinary medicinal products and ensure their wider availability, how to respond to the problems associated with the trend of increasing antibiotic resistance in animals, how to encourage innovation or how to protect the environment.
in addition to improving the veterinary medicines market, it is necessary to consider the impact on human health and the protection of the environment.
at the same time, the principles of public health and environmental protection are respected.
in the future, we can expect data to be a valuable resource for society and the ability to process it efficiently will be beneficial not only for the business environment but also for the functioning of public administration.
in writing, the european union and its member states must ensure that, in their cooperation with the government of eritrea, they always emphasise full respect for human rights, especially in relation to the management of migration flows, as on 28 january 2016 eritrea and the european union signed a landmark agreement on future development cooperation that promotes renewable energy sources and good governance, and subsequently the european union announced that it would provide the country with eur 200 million in long-term support.
i therefore do not consider it a good move for the european union to allocate eur 200 million from the european development fund to energy and governance projects in eritrea, given the dire human rights situation in that country, because it is very questionable how the local government will use this financial injection.
in writing ‒ further progress was made in the accession negotiations with montenegro, which led to the opening of further chapters of negotiations in december 2015, on transport and energy.
the report not only touched on the progress made in the country in the accession negotiations, but also addressed the need to strengthen the fight against corruption and to improve the overall tense political climate.
in order to pursue sustainable development and improve the economic situation of these countries and the lives of their citizens, i believe that the eu should continue with the duty-free and quota-free approach it has established for imports of all products except arms, with imported products meeting european standards relating to quality, safety and public health.
the agreement considers both the economic and environmental sides, so therefore i voted in favour.
in parallel, the eu is involved in supporting a number of activities that are important to greenland's efforts to manage and control its fisheries in a sustainable way.
however, in the future, consideration should be given to the possibilities of sustainable exploitation of fish stocks, with greater emphasis on better compliance with scientific recommendations.
brazil has been one of the union's strategic partners since 2007 and our cooperation covers a number of areas: economic growth, cooperation on key foreign policy issues, jointly addressing global challenges such as respect for human rights, climate change and the fight against poverty.
‒ the marine activities are developing and multiplying at an unusually fast pace, with increasing pressure on sustainability and the conservation of marine biodiversity.
the international community recognises the need for a common international approach to better manage pollution, human activities and increased threats to marine biodiversity.
the potential for growth and employment is enormous and should be used within the ecological limits of the marine environment.
responsible fishing and aquaculture are key to sustainable development and a healthy marine ecosystem.
the convention on marine biodiversity in outermost regions (cmbr) is an international agreement that reaffirms the need to protect marine fauna and flora from pollution caused by human activities and to ensure the sustainable use of natural resources in areas beyond the jurisdiction of states.
i believe that effective measures that are binding on the entire international community are necessary to achieve effective regulation for the protection of marine biodiversity.
‒ the rapid development of marine activities is putting considerable pressure on the sustainability and conservation of marine biodiversity, which requires action by the european union.
‒ the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction takes into consideration both the economic and environmental arguments, therefore i voted in favour.
other declarations followed in which the international community recognises the need for an international approach to tackle pollution and the increasing risks to marine biodiversity.
the un convention on the law of the sea stresses the importance of the protection and sustainable use of oceans and seas and their resources, and calls on the eu and the international community to promote the protection and sustainable use of marine biodiversity by, among other measures, applying modern and sustainable concepts of marine ecosystem management, ocean governance principles, management of the use of marine resources and fisheries.
in order to cope with the pressures on marine biodiversity by 2020, member states will need to take measures to implement management plans, vessel monitoring and coordinate marine biodiversity information.
however, these areas are particularly vulnerable to illegal fishing, exploration drilling or mining, which cause major damage to biodiversity.
in order to prevent pollution and damage in these areas and thus preserve the diversity of ecosystems as much as possible, i regard the creation of a binding legal instrument for the protection of the high seas as a positive step.
‒ the in the area of animal husbandry, cultivation and production of animal and plant products, the need to promote and preserve native breeds and plants is becoming increasingly urgent in order to preserve biodiversity and ensure a healthy human diet.
livestock breeding plays a key role in the common agricultural policy, as, in addition to preserving rare species and thus protecting biodiversity and cultural heritage, it contributes to achieving and maintaining food security in the eu.
i believe that breeding will continue to play a key role, as it has done so far, not only in the conservation of rare breeds and thus in the protection of biodiversity, but also in making a significant contribution to the food security of the union.
cost should not be a determining factor, but the quality of legislation is the only appropriate benchmark and refit must not be used to weaken sustainability or any social, labour, environmental and consumer standards.
‒ the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) emphasises that cost should not be the deciding factor, but that the quality of legislation is the only appropriate benchmark and that the refit programme must not be used to weaken sustainability or any social, labour, environmental and consumer standards.
however, it is important that changes in legislation do not reduce environmental, safety, consumer protection and social standards.
‒ i abstained from voting on the proposal, given that many of its parts were problematic or unclear, ranging from increasing financial support for language support for erasmus+ participants to calling for the expansion of the use of renewable energy.
i also do not support the practice of including motions on problematic issues unrelated to the subject of the report, such as environmental motions, which were also included in this case.
the agreement takes into account both the economic and environmental sides, so therefore i voted in favour.
‒ coastal fishing is a particularly important form of fishing, provides a high level of employment and is socially and environmentally sustainable.
we have a new common fisheries policy, so we need to propose new frameworks and start the process of amending the regulation on management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean.
many fleets from countries such as china, korea and taiwan operate under generally less stringent environmental, safety and social standards and benefit from high subsidies and often lower tax levels.
the best strategy for achieving the european union's objective of promoting sustainable fisheries is to use the european union's influence on the international scene to improve fisheries management and the transparency of standards.
this means in particular improving the transparency of fisheries, the regional approach to fisheries management, including promoting the harmonisation of conditions for access of foreign fleets to third countries, and, last but not least, the establishment of a sustainability framework for joint ventures.
the resolution takes care of both the economic and environmental sides, so therefore i voted in favour.
the eu should, through its sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, promote dialogue with partner countries on the establishment of a regulatory framework to ensure that joint ventures in the fisheries, processing and marketing sectors operate transparently, do not compete with the local small-scale fisheries sector and contribute to the country's development objectives.
for example, if we are to enhance our energy security and help our eastern partners, we should not become more dependent on russian gas.
the situation in nagorno-karabakh shows that we must keep working more actively towards a sustainable and peaceful solution.
a more sustainable legal and budgetary framework should therefore be established in the future to enable humanitarian aid to be mobilised within the european union.
in his career, he has already been involved in international projects, especially in the field of environmental audits, having managed several international environmental audits in cooperation with the highest international state institutions, where he also demonstrated his ability to work in english.
this objection is against the draft measures on the grounds that the draft implementing act fails to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and fails to apply the precautionary principle.
the protection of human, animal and environmental health is paramount and decisions that may affect it in any way need to be considered carefully and responsibly.
for these reasons too, we called on the commission in the resolution to submit a new proposal for the renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate in order to better take into account the sustainable use of herbicides containing it.
‒ the report, the role of the union in a changing global environment, sets out priorities for the eu's role in the world.
if this does not change, the european union will face a serious challenge in the future in dealing with the constantly changing global environment and new security challenges.
the strategy should be revised more frequently, which will provide a completely different view of the current threats and security environment, while allowing for effective and timely action to be taken as new situations require.
if the eu is to be able to address the changing global environment, its strategy must be based on identifying and prioritising threats and challenges, defining responses to these threats and challenges and identifying the necessary means.
the global strategy should be reviewed every five years in cooperation with the new ep and the new commission, which would allow verifying that its objectives and priorities are still in line with the threats and the security environment.
the eu today faces many serious and unforeseen challenges, such as the efforts of revisionist powers to redraw borders by force in violation of international law and to challenge the rules-based world order, climate change, slow economic growth, large flows of migrants and refugees and the biggest refugee crisis since the second world war, as well as technological developments in space and cyber, financial crime, nuclear proliferation and arms race, hybrid and asymmetric warfare.
‒ i did not support ms kalniete's report on the role of the european union in a changing global environment.
‒ the central asian region is of unquestionable strategic importance to the european union, as it is seen as a region where europe can obtain a significant diversification of energy supplies in the future.
specific interests include in particular the areas of democratisation and human rights, gender equality and women's rights, education, youth and mobility, economic integration, trade and sustainable development, energy, environment, transport, regional cooperation, security or border management.
the central asian region has enormous potential for the eu, whether in terms of energy resources, markets or human capital, but without this basic condition it is not possible to build stable cooperation based on shared values and trust.
i support the importance of aligning common interests and objectives, as this is how we will be able to produce sustainable results.
the report also highlights the growing importance of cooperation in the fields of energy and trade and is intended to provide a kind of impetus for modernisation, democratisation and development.
it gives an overview of democracy, human rights, and rule of law, women’s rights, education, economic issues, environment and more.
most of the countries involved are recovering from socialist regimes and it is therefore essential that the eu provides steps to ensure political and economic stability and establish cooperation with the eu at the energy level, which is crucial for the development of these countries.
the reduction of poverty is one of the five measurable targets of the 2020 strategy, and we cannot pretend that we are not affected, as energy poverty is becoming an increasingly widespread problem in europe.
the european parliament has called on the commission and the member states to sign a memorandum and adopt a european concept of a memorandum to prevent the disconnection of heating in winter to protect households that are already without electricity or at risk of being disconnected from services due to energy arrears.
furthermore, to ensure more effective, targeted and thorough monitoring of the use of the structural funds to combat energy poverty, such as insulation of buildings, more efficient use of energy in dwellings.
the challenging digital environment is constantly opening up new frontiers, with neither sufficient harmonisation of the rules for its use nor their effectiveness to ensure adequate protection of personal data.
however, the digital environment, which i refer to in particular the use of e-mail communication, social networks and the like, requires a completely new approach.
the proposal also offers other new legal features that will improve the quality of service provision and the protection of personal data of ordinary individuals in the digital environment.
the more we use the digital environment, the more its legal regulation deserves attention.
‒ in the current economic climate, the european parliament is putting emphasis on the pragmatic, transparent and efficient use of the resources allocated to its core task.
turkey has experienced strong economic growth, but often at the expense of the environment.
turkey is undoubtedly an important neighbour and partner in many areas such as energy and the related implementation of projects of common interest (southern gas corridor) as part of the eu's strategy to diversify energy resources.
other challenges for bosnia and herzegovina include the adoption of national sectoral strategies in the areas of transport, energy and environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the report calls on the european commission to provide member states with greater flexibility in the use of the european structural and investment funds, so that they can allocate eu funds more effectively to reducing energy poverty or improving housing conditions.
it also calls on member states to support investments in renewable energy sources or energy efficiency such as insulation, solar energy and energy-efficient equipment .
member states should focus more on energy efficiency projects and help disadvantaged households in this way.
financially vulnerable households need better protection against energy poverty and more support to improve their energy efficiency.
‒ the eu has set itself five ambitious targets for 2020 in the fields of employment, innovation, education, social inclusion, energy and climate change.
‒ energy is an essential commodity on which our society depends.
it is also a significant expenditure by european consumers, with 10% of households having energy bills in 2015. in the fight against poverty, parliament calls on member states to declare a moratorium on the switching off of heating during the winter months, which will reduce deaths and serious health consequences.
at the same time, consumers should be better informed about their energy consumption and about ways to reduce consumption and increase efficiency in order to reduce energy costs.
the social systems of many member states are based on a living standard that should cover the costs of accommodation, food, energy, medicine, and so forth.
the solution is not to divide poverty into energy, food, health and other, as this report does.
in addition, in the context of the ever-decreasing sources of new global challenges such as climate change, the private sector could play a key role, as this layer can bring innovation, expertise and efficiency to development policy.
the growing population in developing countries will see the middle class grow to 5 billion by 2030. this will increase pressure on the escalating demands on consumption and energy sources, where demand for food is expected to increase by 50%, water by 40% and energy by 30%.
i supported the resolution because i believe that the measures taken will help to ensure that sustainable economic growth, poverty reduction and a higher standard of living are achieved.
the sector should also be given greater support because it contributes to sustainable, efficient and long-term development in the long term and generates up to 90% of jobs and income in all market economies and developing countries.
i am convinced that only a strong private sector delivering economic growth can ensure sustainable development goals that contribute to common progress.
‒ long-term support for the private sector is very important for achieving the sustainable development goals of regions.
the eu considers the private and public sectors to be most effective when they work together to create a healthy environment for investment, business and the foundations of economic growth.
the multigenerational dimension of family businesses is also a guarantee of social responsibility and contributes to sustainable development more than other forms of entrepreneurship.
their actions are irresponsible and raise the question of whether dealing with them is a waste of time.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
as regards the issue of intercountry adoption, i appreciate in this context that the resolution advocates the right of the child to remain in contact with his or her original environment, culture and language, even in the event of adoption.
however, the three previous packages did not address the inadequate level of adjustment and tackle barriers to competition, discrimination and improvements in the business environment.
this type of transport contributes to jobs and growth in a more sustainable way.
these changes are intended to help overcome the obstacles faced by the sector, whether in terms of competition, liberalisation, dynamism or a favourable business environment.
the main objective is to further integrate the european railway area so that the sector can contribute to jobs and growth in a more sustainable way.
the numerous and uncoordinated national rules create a lack of transparency that hinders the development of a dynamic business-friendly environment.
although the three previous railway packages have already brought about substantial changes, the railway sector continues to face many obstacles to competition, discrimination and a poorly liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment.
in writing ‒ the new legislative package will contribute to a better integration of the european rail network, which is a sustainable benefit for the labour market and economic growth.
given the scale and impact of the indices on our financial system as well as on the physical energy markets, i consider the current state of self-regulation to be ineffective.
these are special reports which complement the ep's work in areas such as the control of expenditure on rural development project grants, the exploitation of water transport potential, the financing of municipal waste water treatment plants, support for young people, but also the control of eu foreign policy instruments.
i supported their discharge report because i believe they contribute to many policies such as food protection, environmental cleanliness, or security issues in many areas.
in writing ‒ this particular vote concerns the granting of budgetary discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
in writing ‒ in line with the position of my political group, the epp, i voted against the discharge to be given to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014, as i consider it important that the budget of the european union as a whole first receive a positive opinion from the court of auditors.
in writing ‒ i supported the discharge to the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) as the agency's final annual accounts were approved by the court of auditors.
‒ i fully support the energy union and the emphasis on security and resource self-sufficiency.
i am therefore pleased with the results of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators and that the european parliament has granted discharge to the agency in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2014, and at the same time approved the closure of its accounts.
it will therefore be necessary to consider ways of financing the agency in the future in such a way that its activities are sustainable.
in writing ‒ this particular vote concerns the discharge for the european environment agency.
in writing ‒ i supported the discharge to the executive director of the european environment agency (eea) as the final annual accounts of the agency were approved by the court of auditors.
in writing ‒ the european parliament has granted discharge to the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014, and has also approved the accounts.
i also welcome the fact that the agency has started to process annual environmental reporting and has developed an anti-fraud strategy.
i also welcome the agency's contribution to maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships in europe, as well as the assistance provided to member states.
as regards improvements, the agency has adopted internal policies to increase the cost-effectiveness and environmental acceptability of its facilities.
according to the information available, the foundation operates in a very dynamic environment which requires a high degree of flexibility in the form of continuous updating and adaptation of its activities, since it also provides support to partner countries as part of its tasks.
in writing ‒ this particular vote concerns the granting of budgetary discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
in writing ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
‒ the european parliament has granted discharge to the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, and has also approved the accounts.
access to free broadband internet for all, at least in public spaces, would improve women's access to digital opportunities and increase their chances of accessing the labour market, which would also contribute to greater social inclusion and positive developments in environmental and economic issues.
this project goes against the fundamental principles of an energy union based on diversification of sources and suppliers.
better energy prices can only be achieved by expanding supply, not by empowering the russian state-owned giant.
the european commission held three rounds of negotiations with the government of liberia on the conclusion of the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and implementation protocol.
the objective of the liberian national fisheries authority is to promote sustainable and economically viable fisheries, in line with the eu's fisheries policy.
‒ the the sustainable fisheries agreement between the european union and liberia follows the conclusion by the european union of a number of similar agreements with third countries.
the european union provides financial and technical support to countries through sustainable fisheries partnership agreements in exchange for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks in the partner country's exclusive economic zone.
the union-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement will provide access to a coastline of over 250 000 km2 that is home to demersal and pelagic fish, including tuna and tuna-like species.
the years of civil war have created a space for illegal fishing activities, where foreign vessels have fished fish stocks in liberian waters, resulting in the loss of potential revenue to liberian fishermen and the state, and the deterioration of the health of fish stocks and the marine ecosystem.
i am convinced that the conclusion of such an agreement will contribute to the achievement of the union's objectives in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and will further the objective of the common fisheries policy of sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
this agreement will help the eu to meet its objectives in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and reinforce the common fisheries policy's objective of sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
‒ it is commendable that the eu commission, on the basis of the relevant directives, wants to conclude a new sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia.
the amount of the financial contribution is eur 100000000 for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2015. in addition to the economic and financial benefits for both parties, the agreement has a stabilising impact on fishing fleets and the eu is thus promoting environmental and social sustainability.
the eu is committed to supporting the development of the fleets of the countries with which it has agreements and wants to export its model of environmental, economic and social sustainability, which it promotes in its fisheries policy, as demonstrated in this case by increasing aid to local fisheries in mauritania.
another positive aspect of the report was its overall focus on protecting marine ecosystems and encouraging responsible and sustainable fishing.
gnss also guarantees countries like slovakia cost-effective solutions in ensuring economic growth of current and future needs while preserving environmental protection and with an emphasis on sustainable development.
integrated spatial investment helps to implement integrated spatial strategies and can be used to achieve the objective of sustainable urban development.
the new regulations on the european regional development fund (erdf) provide for a fixed budget of 5% of expenditure for sustainable urban development.
‒ i support the use of new instruments in projects to create high-quality jobs and opportunities for smes, to promote investment, sustainable and inclusive growth and social investment, and to contribute to poverty reduction and social inclusion, especially in the regions and sub-regions where it is most needed.
innovative cohesion policy instruments can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, creating jobs and contributing to sustainable development while meeting the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
the development of resources in mountain regions can also lead to better social, economic and territorial cohesion by ensuring sustainable economic development for mountain regions.
this report points out that connecting mountain regions with their surrounding areas and urban areas is crucial and that this approach to the sustainable development of mountain areas should therefore be transposed into cohesion policy.
the report calls for increased funding from the european structural and investment funds for less developed mountain regions and for a focus on three types of growth: smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the european union has so far been guilty of neglecting mountain regions and their potential to increase employment through so-called green jobs, which help to combat negative climate change.
‒ mountain areas have their own specificities in terms of accessibility, climate, environment, infrastructure and population density.
with the support of the european structural and investment funds, we can turn mountain regions into areas of economic growth, with a view to protecting the environment and natural values.
rich natural resources and an abundance of renewable energy sources can provide employment opportunities and thus contribute to improving employment within the union and to the union's renewable energy targets.
i also agree with the need to increase synergies between european union policies and to develop public-private partnerships in the areas of transport, communications and energy infrastructure.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its impact on the environment.
cross-border mountain cooperation is a sustainable way of promoting the economic and social development of european regions and cities.
these include, in particular, problems of unemployment and related brain drain to areas where they are more employable, infrastructure problems, but also environmental problems related to, for example, climate change, melting glaciers or the threat to exceptional mountain ecosystems by human activity.
the main task of population policies in the member states is to promote the fertility of their population, to create a legislative environment so that families who want to have children can develop and are not condemned to live in poverty.
it is also necessary to encourage appropriate structural reforms in line with the objectives of territorial cohesion and sustainable growth and employment, as well as investment promotion and anti-fraud policies.
‒ cohesion policy enables the european union to lend a helping hand to regions facing major challenges due to their demographic situation or other adversities such as globalisation and climate change.
indeed, the interests of industry, trade unions and other union stakeholders must be taken into account with regard to the impact on employment, the environment, standards and sustainable economic growth in the union in all the industries concerned.
that is why in the resolution we called on the commission to properly address these serious impacts, not only on industry but also on jobs, growth and, not least, the environment.
‒ the european commission should submit to the european parliament a proposal for a sustainable development strategy covering all relevant areas of internal and external policy.
the new european union sustainable development strategy and related implementation procedures should be the subject of extensive consultation with all stakeholders, including national parliaments, local authorities and, not least, civil society.
the millennium development goals have raised awareness of the issue of eradicating global poverty as an urgent challenge and priority for global action, given that the level of achievement of the millennium development goals varies and that, overall, the international community is far from reaching the targets that should have been met as early as 2015. the 2030 agenda for sustainable development sets out 17 sustainable development goals and 169 targets, which demonstrate great ambition in seeking to build on the millennium development goals and complete what has been left unfulfilled.
eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions, including extreme poverty, is the greatest global challenge and a prerequisite for sustainable development.
member states and union institutions need to take concrete steps to achieve the objectives of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
the programme will continue under the sustainable development goals (sdgs) until 2030 and is delighted to be expanded to include environmental objectives such as the sustainable use of seas, oceans, forests and the entire ecosystem.
therefore, if the eu is to achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, it needs to set itself concrete targets based on close consultation with all stakeholders.
i therefore supported this resolution, which stresses the need to ensure that the eu's sustainable development strategy is the subject of broad consultation with all stakeholders, including national parliaments, local authorities and civil society, through an inclusive process.
‒ the last year was the european year of sustainable development, with a number of major developments in development aid.
in view of this, the commission should have come up with an evaluation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development long ago.
but we must remember that the main commitment of sustainable development is to eradicate poverty, redefine and modernise the development strategy for the next 15 years.
‒ the idea of sustainable development in europe should be both legitimate and credible.
progress in three areas, addressing economic, social and environmental issues together in a consistent way and avoiding the divergence between policy types, is required to achieve the objectives set.
i believe that the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals are important tools in eradicating poverty and redefining our strategies to be truly effective.
the resolution therefore calls on the commission to present a comprehensive sustainability strategy covering all relevant areas of internal and external policies with a detailed timetable to 2030 and an ongoing evaluation thereof.
in view of its irreplaceable role in all activities of daily life, i consider energy to be an important asset that should enable every citizen, without distinction, to live in dignity.
while it is gratifying that europe has largely overcome its previous energy problems, i am concerned about the global situation where 1.2 billion people still lack access to electricity and 2.8 billion people still use wood or other biomass for heating or cooking.
although some progress has been made in europe in the field of energy, energy poverty is nevertheless reflected in the growing number of people (more than 50 million) who have problems paying for energy or who have limited access to energy because of low income, uninsulated housing, low-powered equipment (heating, cooking, hot water heating) or very high energy prices.
i believe that the measures taken will protect all citizens without distinction from energy poverty and prevent their social exclusion.
despite all the advantages, i consider it important to create the conditions and regulatory environment so that these systems are not misused for money laundering, illegal and criminal activities and to prevent their misuse for possible support of terrorism.
‒ the report 'a new direction for energy consumers' is an important milestone in the achievement of the energy union's objectives.
providing stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy is a primary interest of citizens.
the development of consumer-friendly, competitive and well-functioning energy markets is key and full implementation of the third energy package is essential to achieve these objectives.
adequate consumer information is a prerequisite for energy-conscious behaviour.
the third energy package aims to ensure a truly competitive retail energy market that is favourable to consumers.
furthermore, i believe that improving the interconnection rate of national networks must have a positive impact on the price of energy for consumers and therefore it is necessary to avoid that the benefits are limited to distribution system operators.
‒ i welcome the new directive on household energy consumers.
the primary objective of the directive is to establish a stable, affordable and efficient system which simultaneously allows the introduction of various energy saving measures, the development of a competitive energy market and the elimination of energy poverty.
i would like to highlight energy poverty, which is a particular threat to central and eastern europe, including my own country, slovakia.
i am very confident that with the help of the new directive we can make great progress not only from the economic and social point of view but also from the environmental point of view.
‒ a new energy-consumer approach should provide citizens with stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy and high-quality energy-efficient products and services.
the new approach should also allow citizens to produce, consume and store their own renewable energy and trade it, individually or collectively, to take energy saving measures and to become active participants in the energy market through consumer choice with the ability to respond to demand.
energy plays an indispensable role in production, services and in the daily activities of every citizen, so that they can work and live with dignity.
it is therefore important to create a system for energy consumers to protect them from abuses, unfair and anti-competitive practices by market players and to enable them to fully exercise their rights.
we need to create the right conditions for consumers to ensure a well-functioning and competitive internal energy market, which gives them choice and transparent and clear access to information.
‒ i am convinced that the causes of the energy poverty that still exists in europe today must be eliminated.
one way to do this is to ensure that eu energy efficiency funding and self-production subsidies benefit energy-poor consumers, often low-income households.
public expenditure by member states to curb this injustice should not be seen as a waste or a mere expense, but as a sensible investment designed to break this vicious circle.
a very small percentage of businesses or citizens seeking to engage in crossborder trade perceive a difference between the domestic single market and the environment outside the european union.
few businesses or citizens seeking to engage in cross-border trade perceive the difference between the domestic single market and the environment outside the union.
in the recent past, many changes have taken place that actively affect the internal market, such as the growth of unemployment, which particularly affects young people, but also the weakening of the business environment and the competitiveness of european enterprises, and last but not least the migration crisis and the related problem of immigration to the european union.
the objective should be to remove unnecessary barriers while building a transparent legal environment that provides legal certainty and guarantees to all operators operating in the internal market.
however, the current challenges have a significant impact on the internal market: on the one hand, there is the growing unemployment affecting eu citizens, especially young people, and the ongoing weakening of the business environment and competitiveness, and on the other, the problem of immigration.
the single market requires ambitious measures such as the investment plan for europe, the european energy union, the digital single market strategy for europe and the capital markets union.
in addition, it is necessary to attract foreign enterprises and private investment to the european single market and to promote the creation of a new economic and business environment, in particular for start-ups, micro, and small and medium-sized enterprises.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
there is a need to protect against the health, social, environmental and economic impacts of this illicit trade.
it is international regulatory cooperation that can promote a transparent economic environment that is conducive to competition.
international cooperation in the field of control will promote a transparent, efficient, pro-competitive environment while ensuring the highest level of health and safety protection.
they also help to avoid double administration and promote a transparent, efficient and market-based economic environment, while developing and ensuring high levels of safety and health protection.
i also support the harmonisation of technical regulations in this area because international cooperation has the potential to promote a transparent, efficient economic environment that should favour competition.
there is a need to protect against the health, social, environmental and economic impacts of this illicit trade.
these are specifically trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security.
the formally adopted 2030 agenda for sustainable development adopted at the 2015 new york summit aims to strengthen policy coherence for sustainable development.
i therefore personally welcome the discussions in the union on policy coherence for development under the 2030 agenda for sustainable development with a view to clarifying how it could be included in a more universal concept of policy coherence for sustainable development, while also involving key international actors.
in order to achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, it is essential that the union takes a proactive human rights-based approach, as progress towards sustainable development and poverty eradication is not possible without overcoming the obstacles to the realisation of human rights.
‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition was created in particular to encourage african countries to invest in agriculture and thus contribute to the creation of a business-friendly environment through reforms of policies relating to infrastructure, taxation, land or trade, easier access to long-term leasing of unused land.
the agreed policies in host countries aim to create a favourable business environment through reforms of infrastructure, tax, land policies, easier access to long-term leasing of unused land, as well as through regulatory reforms in the seed sector to strengthen the intellectual property rights of plant breeders.
it would contribute to the respect by eu-based investors for the rights of local communities and the needs of small-scale producers and encourage other partners in the alliance to do so, by applying a human rights-based approach within the cooperation frameworks, covering environmental, social, land, labour and human rights safeguards, and by ensuring the highest level of transparency of their investment plans.
‒ millions of people in africa, especially children, suffer from hunger and poor quality and inadequate nutrition, which are the main causes of mortality on the continent, and that, alongside land grabbing and climate change, hunger is one of the main reasons why people flee their homes.
i have tried to push parliament to strengthen the position of small producers, family farms and long-term sustainable land use in the resolution.
under the new sustainable development agenda, peace is a key objective.
although we have recently seen increased cooperation between the eu, the un and the african union (au), especially in peace operations, i do not consider the security situation to be adequate in terms of a stable and secure environment in the long term.
it is also important to create a regulatory environment that is more conducive to innovation and to ensure that eu legislation does not become an obstacle to innovation.
‒ the the growth of the world's population and the need to provide for its livelihood, together with climate change, require the search for innovation and new technological solutions also in the field of agriculture.
this situation requires close cooperation between farmers and scientists in the research and development of new solutions to ensure healthy, high-quality and sufficient nutrition, always taking into account food safety, with a focus on health and environmental protection.
the commission and the member states must jointly seek a path to a long-term sustainable economy and create the conditions for constructive cooperation between the agricultural and scientific sectors.
agricultural technologies are needed to achieve productive and sustainable agriculture.
only sustainable and priority investments in research will reverse this trend.
the european union should become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability.
creating a regulatory environment that is more conducive to innovation is also very important.
‒ we need to emphasise the importance of technology, innovation and sustainability in the agricultural sector as well, as this is the only way for european agriculture to be able to face the challenges posed by globalisation.
moreover, the long-term predictability and sustainability of individual sectors must not be overlooked, since investments are useless if the operation is dependent on aid and the aid system is constantly changing.
‒ the world is currently facing very worrying challenges, which also affect agriculture to a significant extent (decreasing availability of land, environmental damage and degradation, water scarcity, increased demand for energy, the arrival of new pests and diseases).
i also believe that only through agricultural technology can agriculture be more productive and sustainable.
but i also see as a worrying signal that the world's population will reach 9.6 billion by 2050, an increase of 2.4 billion compared to today, and that the world will have to produce 70% more food, feed, fibre and biomass on smaller agricultural land and under climate stress.
i expect the eu and its member states to take measures that will help farmers produce more food for the people of the eu and the world that is safe, healthy, nutritious and with less impact on the environment.
on the other hand, we have almost no measures against food waste.
this also affects the environment.
the growth of the world's population and the difficulties it brings, with hunger on the one hand and waste and excessive waste on the other, call for a clear support for innovation.
although agriculture is one of the most dynamic economic sectors, in recent years we have seen problems worldwide with the decline of natural productivity and fertility of soils caused by soil degradation, in particular soil erosion, due to the loss of ecosystem functions such as tillage, humus production, pollination, water retention and nutrient cycling.
in this context, it is therefore important that we provide tunisia with macro-financial assistance, which will in particular assist tunisia in the reforms it is undertaking to improve its budgetary situation, balance of payments and thus create a more favourable investment environment.
eur 11 million, is allocated to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the european parliament, the council and the european commission must work together in the future to establish a framework for a coherent eu policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage caused by the transport of dangerous and harmful substances at sea.
given the significant share of dangerous and harmful substances in maritime freight transport, the global nature of the shipping industry and the likely cross-border impact of accidents involving dangerous and harmful substances, i believe it is in the interest of the union to establish the most effective way without compromising the unity, integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of eu law and without undue discrimination for the victims of pollution and the shipping industry.
the agreement also covers cooperation in the various sectors of the economy, namely migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, drug trafficking, organised crime and corruption.
other areas include migration, taxation, the environment, energy, science and technology, but also tourism and culture.
i therefore hope that, in cooperation with the eu, the philippines will succeed in improving its political and legal environment.
it recalls that the european union should continue to support the philippines in areas such as poverty reduction, respect for human rights and the rule of law, disaster preparedness and climate change policies.
the philippines is also the third most vulnerable developing country to climate change, which can adversely affect its agriculture and marine resources.
i therefore hope that, in cooperation with the eu, the philippines will succeed in improving its political and legal environment.
in 2015, the commission provided for a further eur 500 million in aid to tunisia to improve the country's budget and create a favourable environment for investment.
in this context, it is therefore important that we provide tunisia with macro-financial assistance, which will in particular assist tunisia in the reforms it is undertaking to improve its budgetary situation, balance of payments and thus create a more favourable investment environment.
in writing ‒ the current legal environment allows multinational companies to shift their profits to tax havens.
they provide the member states and the eu with a better operational capacity to implement the csdp, but also other policies, such as maritime security, agriculture, the environment, disaster management, humanitarian aid and transport.
‒ i am deeply concerned by the serious deterioration of the situation with regard to democracy, human rights and the socioeconomic situation in venezuela, in an environment of growing political and social instability.
urgent economic reforms are needed to find a constructive solution to the economic and energy crisis, in particular the shortage of food and medicine.
in writing ‒ in order to safeguard health and the environment, the commission was required to adopt delegated acts concerning the definition of scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties of active substances and biocidal products with a view to prohibiting dangerous substances.
both the united nations environment programme and the world health organization consider them a global threat to public health.
the commission is required to carry out impact assessments for legislative and non-legislative initiatives expected to have a significant economic, environmental or social impact.
‒ the the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of genetically modified carnation is contrary to the protection of health and the environment enshrined in directive 2001/18/ec.
efsa has therefore produced two expert opinions on which there is no scientific evidence that they have adverse effects on human health or the environment.
the spread of wild species cannot be excluded and resistance to sulphonylurea herbicides could encourage the use of these herbicides with possible adverse effects on biodiversity and cause chemical contamination of drinking water.
personally, i believe that the proposal does not meet the objectives of protecting health and the environment and therefore exceeds the implementing powers laid down in the directive.
i agree with the rapporteur that the draft decision does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment, as the possible negative effects of using this type of nail have not been sufficiently analysed.
for example, efsa has not assessed the possible consequences of the deliberate consumption of genetically modified carnations on humans, has not addressed the deliberate or accidental consumption of carnation flowers by animals, or has not addressed the composted carnation waste that may be released into the environment.
this gene provides resistance to the highly toxic herbicide sulfonylureas, and it is unclear how its proliferation would affect the environment.
‒ the rail sector contributes to climate change mitigation and to coping with other current megatrends such as urbanisation and demographic change.
on the other hand, the european rail supply industry can rely on several favourable factors, as it is a mode of transport with good environmental performance, can rely on a large market and on the ability to facilitate mass transport.
the energy model of the european union requires a new approach.
we can prevent serious environmental consequences if we have regulation and democratic participation.
the plan should ensure the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities and thus the livelihoods of fishermen.
demonstrate the need for responsible and sustainable objectives to protect the environment.
i therefore voted in favour of the proposal, which could bring about a guiding stability in the face of a highly sensitive ecosystem.
the plan should ensure the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities and thus the livelihoods of fishermen.
given that cod, herring and sprat are important components of the baltic ecosystem, it is desirable to adapt their exploitation rates and techniques to new scientific knowledge on the interactions and changes of environmental conditions.
the proposal for a regulation addresses these biological interactions and the environmental effects of fish stocks in the baltic sea.
a supportive home environment can help not only to combat lack of education but also to counterbalance the lure of violent extremism among young people.
equally important, the report proposes flexible measures based on the situation in each country and does not seek to adopt a one-size-fits-all approach, which i consider to be a much more sustainable solution compared to the often used 'one size fits all' approach.
‒ the european union has been very active in the fight against climate change.
the development of renewable resources is also an integral part of the european union's commitments in this area, but this will require a new approach and the necessary investments in the future, which can contribute to the creation of quality jobs for citizens of the member states of the european union.
‒ balancing the need to ensure the union's energy independence and self-sufficiency with the preservation of ecosystems and the protection of the environment is one of the greatest challenges, with a fundamental impact on the lives of all citizens.
therefore, the promotion and search for renewable energy sources must always take into account the need to protect the environment and the need, in particular, to assess in advance the possible impacts of each solution.
the public interest in safe and clean energy must be a priority.
the development of renewable energy sources requires a new approach to become a fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model.
it is our collective effort and responsibility to fight climate change.
leading the development of strategic technologies to improve the energy transition requires strengthening our production model and creating quality jobs.
at the same time, we must prevent energy oligopolies from being the ones to determine the future of energy for europe.
with the adoption of the renewable energy directive, europe has started the process of transforming the energy mix of its member states.
this legal instrument, with its binding targets and clear rules on supervision and control, has created a favourable environment for the development of the renewable energy sector and has contributed to its diversification.
regulation of the renewable energy sector at european level should address many of the challenges that are holding back the development of the sector, promote public investment, democratic control and a stable framework for investment in order to facilitate collective and democratic energy management in order to ensure a fully sovereign, efficient and clean energy model by 2050. i vote for the motion.
‒ the european union must set an example to other global actors in the fight against climate change.
i welcome the kind of approach that gives renewable energy a greater role, as the long-term goal is to reduce dependence on energy sources outside the european union.
we need to move towards a sustainable energy production model, because the safety of society as a whole is at stake.
i am very confident that with the support of this report, the 2020 renewable energy targets will be achieved and the necessary action will be taken in all member states.
‒ the renewable energy sector employs more than 1 million people in europe and is worth over eur 13 billion a year.
it is pleased that today 26% of eu energy is produced from renewable sources and around 10% of total eu electricity comes from variable renewable sources of electricity (e.g.
wind and solar) and that more and more people are accepting renewables as a natural source of energy.
although all european countries should achieve the binding 2020 renewable energy targets, further action is needed for some member states that are already making slow progress.
although some progress has been made in renewable energy (reducing energy costs), the diversity of different policies to promote renewable energy raises the risks of further widening the competitiveness gap between eu member states.
i supported the resolution because the proposed measures create additional opportunities for the development of renewable energy sources, which can help ensure energy security and sovereignty, eliminate energy poverty and support the eu's economic development.
‒ if the eu is to strengthen its production model, it must reduce its dependence on energy sources from the rest of the world.
the regulation of renewable sources should prevent emerging problems and solve existing ones.
‒ i did not support the report on progress on renewable energy.
the report assessed the implementation of the renewable energy directive to date and identified countries that are close to or have already met their 2020 targets in this area.
the report was particularly positive in its references to improved cooperation between member states and regions, as well as in its confirmation that the decision on the mix of resources or energy mix that member states will have is their exclusive competence.
unfortunately, too often the report referred to binding targets or called for an ambitious energy package.
‒ the european union is one of the world leaders in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the european union is on track to meet its 2020 targets, which include a 20% reduction in co2 emissions, a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and a 20% increase in energy efficiency.
this is largely possible thanks to the successful emissions trading system.
however, there are also negative aspects to energy reporting, which undoubtedly include the loss of energy savings due to various government fees and reporting costs.
the european union currently has somewhat contradictory climate protection legislation.
the european commission should therefore make future efforts to create a european electricity market and energy policy legislation.
‒ the emissions trading system and the promotion of investments in efficient and effective energy technologies help the union to meet the eu's targets of reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020 and increasing the share of energy produced from renewable sources.
i support the proposal that the commission and the member states should pay more attention to the implementation of climate and energy policy and increase their control mechanisms for their compliance.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because energy efficiency and energy security are investments in the future.
i am convinced that the european union's achievements to date - a 23% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions between 1990 and 2014 - provide us with an incentive to set flexible and realistic targets moving forward.
the energy market should be supported by investments that prioritise sustainable growth and job creation.
‒ i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive, which has brought about many positive changes for the eu and the member states.
i am very positive that the eu is on track to meet its 2020 targets, which include a 20% reduction in co2 emissions, a 20% increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and a 20% increase in energy efficiency.
however, i am concerned by the information that if the current pace is maintained, the eu will not reach the 20% energy saving target by 2020 and that the actual rate will be 1 to 2% lower.
i expect the eu and the member states to do everything possible to address shortcomings as soon as possible, including energy reporting red tape and high energy prices for medium-sized businesses and private households.
i believe that by taking effective measures at eu member state level, we will be able to meet the european target of 20% energy savings by 2020.
in writing.
‒ it should be noted that citizens need to be made aware of the importance and efficiency of energy savings without the energy efficiency directive being implemented.
‒ energy efficiency is one of the key parameters in securing energy supply.
european and national policies in this area should therefore create an environment in which investments in resource efficiency pay off.
the emphasis on efficiency is therefore in the interest of all member states and is a necessary prerequisite for reducing the eu's energy dependence on russia.
‒ i did not support mr pieper's report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
the report itself understands energy efficiency as a source of energy and defines it as a way of protecting the environment and helping to reduce the european union's energy dependence.
of course, at a time when it is important to look for ways to reduce the european union's energy dependence on foreign sources, the benefits of improved energy efficiency must also be addressed.
on the other hand, the report also contained several calls for the setting of binding energy efficiency targets at both european and national level, which i do not support.
i agree with the points in the resolution and have supported those that speak of the need to reform the eu, to promote our common values, to ensure stability, social justice, sustainability, growth and employment, to overcome the persisting economic and social uncertainty, to protect citizens and to address the issue of migration, which also played a significant role in the outcome of the referendum in the uk.
i think it is also important that the projects prepared by the slovak presidency, which are important from an economic point of view, namely the digital single market, the energy union and the capital union, continue, precisely because they are important for reducing prices for people and are beneficial for everyone.
peru supports many investment projects, especially in the water, transport and energy sectors.
‒ the proposal presented here aims to improve the regulation of harmful emissions from engines installed in so-called non-road mobile machinery, which encompasses a wide range of machinery such as construction machinery, inland waterway vessels and others.
the emissions in question contribute significantly to air quality in the european union and must therefore become an important part of air quality legislation at european union level and help member states to achieve national air quality objectives.
‒ the protection of the environment and the air is a continuous process which must respond flexibly to technical developments and the associated potential threats.
off-road mobile machinery produces around 15% of nitrogen oxides (nox) and 5% of particulate matter emissions within the eu.
all these engines account for about 15% of nitrogen oxide and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union.
a new service has also been established in the monitoring system to assess engine performance, bridging the gap between laboratory engine testing and real-world emissions.
‒ the european union currently has the strictest rules on emissions.
our aim is to further improve the quality of the environment and thus the health of european citizens.
in line with eu air quality policy, the aim is to gradually reduce emissions from engines placed on the market and thus replace older engines that pollute more over time.
‒ i supported the resolution because i believe that achieving the union's air quality and air protection objectives in a sustainable way from now to 2020 and beyond requires the adoption of additional emission limits also for non-road mobile machinery.
i agree that the new emission limits should also apply to agricultural machinery and vehicles, which should make the share of emissions from non-road mobile machinery more proportionate to road vehicles.
i welcome the fact that, in order to reduce emissions from non-road mobile machinery, we are going to deepen direct cooperation between manufacturers and other related enterprises on the one hand and well-established scientific and research institutions on the other.
i am convinced that better cooperation in the development of new products and technologies will also improve air quality and reduce emissions from off-road machinery and agricultural vehicles.
‒ given that greenhouse gas emissions are also largely influenced by machinery, environmental considerations are also needed in this respect.
the proposed regulation has two objectives, namely to reduce emissions and to reduce red tape.
such an arrangement can have a positive impact not only on the health of citizens but also on the business environment and competitiveness in europe.
non-road machinery such as cranes or other construction machinery, trains, snowmobiles or even lawn mowers can make a significant contribution to air pollution, resulting in a number of health problems for the european union's population, among other things.
in addition to the benefits for the environment and human health, the regulation will also contribute to increasing the competitiveness of european industry in these sectors, as european producers will have lower costs, less administrative burden resulting from uniform requirements and thus easier access to third country markets.
i believe that slovakia, as the country holding the presidency of the council of the european union, will also succeed in promoting a sustainable migration and asylum policy that will benefit not only the citizens of slovakia but also the entire eu.
‒ the as early as 2010, the european parliament issued a european commission recommendation on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
there is still a lack of a regulatory framework on how businesses can comply with their human rights obligations in relation to social and environmental standards.
the 2030 agenda for sustainable development recognises the crucial impact of trade policies in meeting the objectives, as it addresses several policy areas such as rules of origin, food regulation, commodity markets and gender equality.
the link between trade, human rights and social and environmental standards has become an integral part of the union's economic and trade relations, as policies concerning human rights and democracy in third countries should continue to be integrated into other union policies with an external dimension, including trade policy.
i think the union should use trade policy to promote the objective of setting high global standards in the areas of human and social rights, consumer protection and environmental issues.
i therefore welcome the strengthening of trade agreements and trade preference programmes as tools to promote human rights, the elimination of forced and child labour, food security and the right to health, sustainable development and high safety and environmental standards, as well as economic opportunities for all.
‒ i support the report as i believe it is extremely important that both the private and the public sector should help to achieve human rights, social and environmental standards.
the eu's new generation of trade and investment agreements hold partners accountable for the protection of human rights and for social and environmental standards, but accountability is not enough to be held accountable by the other party alone, it must also be ensured at member state and eu level.
i see the link between trade, human rights and social and environmental standards, which go hand in hand with the promotion and respect of international standards and rules, as the basis for good trade relations that reinforce mutual understanding and shared values such as the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights.
‒ continuous and sustainable development is conditional on developing both the private and public sectors in a socially and environmentally responsible manner.
‒ the report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility follows the european parliament's 2010 resolutions calling for all future business strategies to act as a tool for more effective inclusion and implementation of social and environmental standards.
in addition to these areas, the report also touched on such important issues as the elimination of child labour and the ban on imports of products made using child labour, or the neutralization of energy subsidies.
but i would point out that although the rapporteur claims that the eu's status as the world's largest economy is sustainable, this is only his wishful thinking.
trade agreements should be designed to be powerful tools for strengthening sustainable development and promoting human rights and environmental sustainability.
trade cooperation with the rest of the world, based on mutual benefit, respect for and protection of human rights, improvement of working conditions for workers and social security for people, and protection of the environment, is a means of ensuring sustainable development and improving the quality of life of europeans.
it is essential to formulate trade and investment agreements in such a way that they are an effective means of strengthening sustainable development, human rights, labour and social standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
in a rapidly changing economic environment, the aim is to achieve long-term sustainable development that ultimately leads to a win-win trading system.
i very much regret that the report submitted did not take up the proposals from the environment committee's resolution on surrogacy.
according to europol, the worldwide spread of internet access is facilitating the growing development of trafficking in human beings in the online environment.
you will become, mr prime minister, the face of a union which will soon have to take serious decisions affecting its future functioning, security, energy and relations with its partners in the world.
the slovak presidency's priorities include a sustainable migration and asylum policy, which everyone agrees with and will expect concrete action from slovakia.
this concept must be present in particular in energy and transport issues, but also in security and in access to the single market.
‒ azerbaijan is a country rich in mineral resources and is also an important partner that can help address the eu's energy security.
azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the union.
however, the importance of the union-azerbaijan relationship is not limited to energy security and the importance of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation set out in the eastern partnership.
‒ azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the eu.
however, the importance of the eu-azerbaijan relationship is not limited to energy security, the importance of the partnership should be taken in the context of all aspects of cooperation set out in the eastern partnership.
‒ the proposal seeks to create a trusted and secure digital environment.
‒ the the security of network and information systems is increasingly important for the functioning of our societies and economies and, last but not least, an important prerequisite for creating a secure environment for global trade in services.
‒ i supported the second reading of the proposal to increase cybersecurity of networks, as i consider it important to set minimum requirements for the security of the digital environment at eu level.
the proposal will require providers of essential services, such as energy, transport, banking and healthcare, and digital services, including search engines and clouds, to strengthen their resilience to cyberattacks.
the new directive should lay down safety and reporting obligations for operators of so-called essential services in sectors such as energy, transport, health, banking and the supply and distribution of drinking water.
‒ the proposal for a regulation sets out a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repeals directive 2010/30/eu.
the proposal aims to provide greater transparency for consumers and authorities on energy-related products placed on the union market.
the energy label has helped to raise awareness among citizens about the environmental impact of products.
a new energy classification of product models is proposed: energy classes a-g, with a transition within 5 years.
‒ the since its inception, the label has enabled citizens to better understand the environmental impact of products and their life cycle.
if addressed, they can lead to significant additional energy savings.
the revised database represents a real driver of the changes needed to empower citizens as protagonists of the eu's energy transformation.
the allocation of product models to energy efficiency classes a to g after the adjustment of the scales will have a significant impact on the market.
it is also necessary to ensure that information of relevance to consumers relating to energy-related products is stored and organised in an easily accessible and usable form, while encouraging businesses to develop innovative applications that deliver key value to citizens, industry and society.
‒ the energy labelling is environmentally friendly because it allows consumers to obtain accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy efficiency and consumption of energy-related products anywhere in the union, enabling them to make informed, cost-effective and environmentally sound purchasing decisions that are good for the environment and save money.
most consumers know, understand and use energy labelling in their purchasing decisions.
for several products, the lower energy label classes are empty, as ecodesign measures have banned low-efficiency models and manufacturers have responded to technological progress with increasingly efficient products.
there is a systematic need to 'scale up' products by returning to the original a to g energy label scale.
establish a database of products subject to energy labelling.
this technical development leads to the development of products belonging mainly to the highest energy labelling classes.
in order to maintain the credibility of the energy label in the eyes of consumers.
‒ the rapid technological progress achieved in the field of energy efficiency of products in recent years needs to be taken into account in the legislation concerning energy efficiency of products.
‒ energy efficiency is not only a matter of protecting the environment, but also of our efforts to save costs and reduce the load on the networks.
‒ the legislation on energy labelling applies to products that have a significant direct or indirect impact on energy consumption.
i supported the tightening of energy efficiency criteria to reflect technological progress, i also support the division of appliances into seven efficiency classes, from a to g. the majority of electrical appliances today fall under class a, under which subclasses a+, a++ and a+++ have been created, on the basis of the 2010 requirements.
however, the label on a household appliance should inform the consumer not only of the energy efficiency class of the product but also of its absolute energy consumption in kwh over a year or other period of time.
‒ the main objective of establishing a european maritime and safety agency is to ensure uniform and effective maritime safety, to protect maritime traffic and at the same time to prevent pollution caused by ships.
the key tasks are to increase security by monitoring vessels' movements, providing assistance where needed, adhering to an environmental strategy, reducing bureaucracy in ports and fighting piracy.
at european union level, there are currently 316 national authorities performing functions in a variety of areas including protection, security, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and law enforcement in general.
‒ while there are currently 316 national authorities that perform the function of coast guard and are responsible for protection, safety, rescue operations at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and law enforcement in general, the crisis has revealed clear weaknesses and shortcomings in the current mechanisms that need to be addressed.
cohesion policy is of great importance for the digital single market, rural development, the energy union, but also for the environment, digitalisation and transport, thus making a significant contribution to strengthening the single market and achieving the europe 2020 objectives.
it is therefore essential to involve universities, industry and the social partners in research and innovation, in renewable energy and in supporting smes, in particular in creating new jobs and promoting the green economy.
‒ a stagnating economy, high unemployment, weakened social and labour rights, and growing socioeconomic disparities require a fundamental shift from the eu's policies of the past towards policies that strengthen member states' efforts to create sustainable economic growth and public investment in job creation.
i supported the ep's call for japan to immediately stop whaling and to respect international treaties and conventions in this area in order to conserve biodiversity and end unnecessary suffering.
japan is seriously threatening biodiversity by allowing whaling.
only well-managed, responsible tourism is the only truly sustainable use of these animals.
given that belarus remains a centralised autocratic state that does not respect human rights and freedoms, continues to legislate for and implement the death penalty, and fails to meet economic, social and environmental requirements, i supported the proposal to reject the commission's delegated decision.
‒ the if the un is to gain the capacity to implement, shape and promote the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, substantial reforms in its functioning are needed.
in order to maintain the credibility and leadership of the eu in the field of global development, it is essential to present a common position on the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development before the high-level political forum in 2016. the european commission should therefore not hesitate to issue a communication on the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development in time to enable the european parliament to contribute to the council conclusions before the high level political forum.
the upcoming 71st un general assembly must address the most pressing issues of the day, in particular the fight against terrorism and the illegal proliferation of weapons, disarmament, the promotion and maintenance of peace and security in the world, the humanitarian, migration and refugee crisis, human rights, the promotion of the rule of law, and climate change.
at a time when the regional as well as the global security environment is deteriorating significantly, the un must play a key role in ensuring global security and stability.
all member states must strictly implement the obligations of the convention and adopt strategies that create, to the extent possible, appropriate and appropriate conditions and an environment for the active participation of persons with disabilities in all spheres of working, socioeconomic, social and political life.
the voluntary code of practice for the sale and labelling of energy drinks, which is intended for the energy drinks sector, only provides for an undertaking not to sell energy drinks to children under 12 years of age.
these are mainly energy drinks containing excessive amounts of substances (caffeine, sugar) that are not beneficial for children and young people who drink these drinks frequently.
the commission should fulfil its obligation to establish nutritional profiles and consider restricting the sale of energy drinks to children and young people.
adolescents represent the largest group of energy drink consumers.
energy drinks have been linked to headaches, sleep problems and behavioural problems in children and adolescents who regularly consume them.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution by which parliament vetoed the commission's proposal to include health claims on the packaging of energy drinks.
energy drinks, in particular, contain a high amount of sugar and are often consumed by adolescents, even children.
however, the economic and trade issues, even though they were the meeting of the world's most important politicians, must be seen as improving the lives of people not only in economically developed countries but also worldwide, because it is precisely the improvement of social conditions and the quality of life that has a significant impact on global issues, such as migration or the sustainability of the world economy and global trade.
we agree with the commission that emissions control must not only be carried out in laboratory conditions but also in real traffic and that the rules must apply equally to everyone and everywhere in the common market.
the european union must create a stable environment for car manufacturers.
in writing the emissions scandal exposed several global car manufacturers for their deliberate misrepresentation of passenger and commercial vehicle emissions data.
it deals with the measurement of emissions in the automotive industry and with compliance with applicable regulations, whether by the european commission or by the competent authorities within the member states.
the committee of inquiry is currently collecting and analysing information on the use of jamming mechanisms in the measurement of emissions by individual cars.
the strategies promote knowledge-based, sustainable growth, balanced development and quality jobs.
in writing ‒ the ris3 strategy, which is based on the cohesion policy, the strategy and research and innovation for smart specialisation, aims to improve the smart specialisation strategy by promoting thematic focus and strategic planning of better use of european structural and investment funds, increasing focus on performance on the ground, and thereby contributing to the achievement of the objectives set out in the europa2020 strategy, on the basis of knowledge, sustainable growth, balanced development and high-quality jobs in all areas, not only in economically strong areas but also in regions in transition as well as in less developed, rural and remote areas.
‒ i support the report because i believe that ris3 is a major contribution to the realisation of a sustainable, intelligent and inclusive economy.
it uses a triple-spiral approach, for example in urban development, based on sustainable connections and cooperation between business actors, research centres and cities.
the key will be to optimise the cooperation between the european institutions, national governments, schools, local authorities and the business environment.
despite their small budget, crossborder cooperation projects are delivering positive results, whether in removing obstacles to better security, transport, education, energy, healthcare, training or employment.
programmes supported by european territorial cooperation contribute to improving the state of the environment and to increasing research and innovation in ways that are directly felt by the inhabitants of the territories concerned.
in writing ‒ the emissions scandal exposed several global car manufacturers for their deliberate misrepresentation of passenger and commercial vehicle emissions data.
it deals with the measurement of emissions in the automotive industry and with compliance with applicable regulations, whether by the european commission or by the competent authorities within the member states.
the committee of inquiry is currently collecting and analysing information on the use of jamming mechanisms in the measurement of emissions by individual cars.
the aim is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
the european union currently has the strictest rules on emissions of harmful substances.
our aim is to further improve the quality of the environment and thus the health of european citizens.
in writing ‒ we're one step closer to uncovering the background to the emissions scandal.
in his work, he has always drawn attention to the impact of systematic corruption on politics and the economy, especially in the area of public procurement in the field of environmental policy.
since 2010, as a member of the european court of auditors, he has led several special reports in different thematic areas, from the protection and management of natural resources, through structural policies to transport and energy.
the report also points to the need to change the breakdown of charges and thus the current situation which allows for the shifting of charges from the grid to energy and vice versa.
in addition to the obligation to collect data on energy prices, network charges or taxes, member states will also be required to report these data to the european commission (or eurostat) on a regular basis.
recent developments such as new technologies, fluctuating commodity prices and the rapid expansion of renewable electricity generation have fundamentally changed the european energy market.
secondly, we need to create a european infrastructure for secure energy supply.
third, regional cooperation in energy policy should be strengthened, in particular with regard to the development of new energy generation equipment, interconnectors and support schemes, and the integration of renewable energy sources into the european internal market.
achieving these objectives is in europe's common interest, as the integration of electricity markets will improve the secure, cost-effective and environmentally sound supply of energy.
the general structure of the national energy mix of the member states should be respected in the development of the new strategy.
in writing ‒ the subject of this report is the european energy market and, in particular, the presentation of the structure of how this system should look, taking into account the ability to achieve energy policy objectives.
the challenges we face in the energy sector include in particular increased dependence on oil and gas imports, but also a lack of diversification.
in addition, energy prices are also driven up by government taxes and global energy demand.
‒ the commission's proposal for an internal energy market sets three policy objectives: 1.to create a pan-european electricity market with clear price signals for new investment; 2.to establish a european approach to security of energy supply; 3.to strengthen regional cooperation in energy policy, in particular in relation to investments in power plants and the integration of renewable energy sources into the single european market.
the consistent implementation of these objectives in all policies affecting the internal energy market will ensure self-sufficiency, sustainability and an abundance of affordable and secure energy for the union and its people, taking into account environmental protection and employment in the sector.
europe faces several major energy challenges, including increased dependence on oil and gas imports, lack of diversification, high energy prices, rising global energy demand, security risks in producer and transit countries, the fight against adverse climate change, slow progress in energy efficiency, increasing the share of renewable energy, the integration and interconnection of energy markets and market distortions caused by different subsidy schemes.
better integration and coordination of energy markets brings with it many opportunities to achieve the common european objectives of a secure, affordable and green energy supply.
however, energy markets, in particular electricity markets, are still today strongly characterised by national responsibility for the energy mix.
measures to promote national energy mix are very diverse and include, for example, significant subsidies to promote renewable energy sources and the establishment of capacity mechanisms to ensure security of supply in some member states.
the proposal aims to strengthen the internal market in electricity with clear price signals for new investment, to ensure security of energy supply and to strengthen regional cooperation in the field of energy policy, in particular in relation to investments in power plants, interconnections, support schemes, as well as the integration of renewable energy sources into the european single market, to which individual markets need to be adapted appropriately.
the energy market needs to be redesigned to move towards a sustainable energy production model.
the development of energy-producing equipment and the integration of renewable energy sources into the european internal market are the main areas for action.
i see the main objective of the energy market redesign as the creation of a union-wide electricity market, which was a key point for me in supporting the report.
the share of electricity produced from renewable sources should be increased from the current 25% to 50% in 2030. in this context, i consider it of the utmost importance that the european union (eu) electricity system undergoes a fundamental transformation to enable network operators, producers and consumers, both in households and in industry, to take full advantage of new technologies in order to achieve the objectives of the energy union strategy.
i am pleased that the eu entered 2015 with a commitment to provide its citizens and businesses with a secure and affordable supply of energy, while fighting the causes of climate change.
i believe that the adoption of the global climate agreement in paris in december (accepted by 195 countries) sent a clear signal to investors, businesses and policymakers that the global clean energy transition is irreversible, with a necessary shift away from polluting fossil fuels.
i voted in favour of the resolution because it is important that the measures leading to the new energy market design create sufficient conditions for a reliable and affordable supply of energy for all eu citizens and businesses.
‒ the energy union is a hugely important and ambitious project, which will lead to cheaper, cleaner and safer energy for households and businesses.
‒ the european parliament's resolution responds to the commission's communication on a new energy market concept and advocates that a transformed energy market should strengthen regional cooperation and focus on improved, decentralised and more flexible markets.
on the other hand, however, i decided to vote against this resolution because of negative elements for me, such as the condemnation of capacity markets or national energy mix determined at european level instead of national level.
from the point of view of environmental protection, it should be noted that in many countries there are still obsolete thermal power plants which need to be replaced as soon as possible by new, high-efficiency combined heat and power plants.
in writing ‒ the union's energy and climate target for 2050 is to use 100% of energy from renewable sources.
up to 50% of current final energy consumption in the eu is used for heating and cooling, of which 80% is used in buildings.
the union's objectives can thus only be achieved by reducing energy consumption and by applying the principle of energy efficiency consistently.
my work experience has convinced me that the best way to reduce energy demand in this area is to insulate buildings.
it is therefore necessary to increase the amount of funding for insulation of residential buildings and complexes, but also for the use of innovative ways of obtaining the necessary energy.
in writing up to 50% of final energy consumption in the eu is for heating and cooling, with up to 75% of the fuels used in the eu being of fossil origin and only 18% of primary energy supply for heating and cooling coming from renewable sources.
addressing the growing use of energy, but especially fossil fuels, is also one of the objectives of the eu energy union.
the european union's heating and cooling strategy aims to increase the energy efficiency of buildings by upgrading their outdated heating systems, renovating them and providing thermal innovation.
improving the links between electricity systems and district heating would help to increase the use of renewable resources.
the emphasis is on sustainable heating and cooling.
other instruments are scientific research, technical innovation, the modernisation of european industry, and the need to establish an attractive financial system to support new technologies for heating households using renewable sources.
for member states that joined the union after 2004, the easiest way to use energy efficiently and reduce co2 emissions is through the thermal renovation of buildings.
new, innovative solutions are needed, especially with the use of solar energy.
i voted in favour of the report because it looks to the future and the solutions it offers are needed both from the environmental and health point of view.
in writing ‒ heating and cooling account for the largest share of eu energy demand.
waste energy will continue to play an important role in heating, as landfills and the use of fossil fuels are often the only alternatives.
the commission should develop a plan under the waste-to-energy programme to promote and exploit the potential benefits of the sustainable use of organic waste for heating and cooling connected to district heating and cooling systems.
unfortunately, consumer choice is limited by a lack of information on actual energy consumption and costs and often by a lack of funds to invest in the most efficient technologies.
i supported the resolution because i consider the development of a heating and cooling strategy to be a priority of the energy union, which can lead to energy and cost savings for companies and citizens.
i also welcome the fact that this strategy builds on the solid foundation of eu legislation and identifies areas where change or reform is needed to take account of future developments and achieve the objectives of the energy union.
i appreciate that the 2014-2020 budget has significantly increased the contribution to this area; i therefore expect the proposed strategy to help reduce energy imports and energy dependence, reduce household and business costs and meet the eu's greenhouse gas reduction target and the commitment under the paris cop21 climate change agreement.
in writing ‒ reducing costs and increasing efficiency is one of the basic preconditions for the successful implementation of the energy union.
in writing ‒ the new strategy for heating and cooling was presented by the european commission in february 2016 and is part of the energy union strategy.
the energy union strategy is the focus of this report, which addresses the main challenges associated with the strategy.
according to the report, one of the biggest problems is that up to 84% of heating and cooling is generated from fossil fuels and the potential of renewable energy sources is not being sufficiently exploited.
this may have a negative impact on climate and energy objectives.
the resolution therefore proposed in particular the decarbonisation of heating and cooling, the conversion of existing buildings into low-energy buildings, the exploitation of the energy potential of waste, but also, for example, the inclusion of consumers and industry in the process of energy generation and provision.
the commission and the member states must remove unnecessary administrative barriers, focus on creating simplified but effective legislation and a flexible financial environment that creates better conditions for sme start-ups, promotes research and innovation and a wider involvement of smes in trade.
such an environment will enable them to increase value added, economic growth and employment.
smes are the main drivers of europe's long-term economic growth and sustainable job creation opportunities in the 28 member states.
overall, it advocated the need to create a simplified business environment and to speed up the process of setting up new businesses that will bring significant economic growth and new jobs in the future.
the first pillar aims to increase the competitiveness and cohesion of the alpine region, including the promotion of sustainable and competitive tourism.
the second pillar aims to improve accessibility, providing adequate transport and energy infrastructure.
the third pillar is based on the keywords of sustainability, environmental protection, biodiversity and the protection of ecosystems.
the strategy is based on three fundamental pillars: 1, improving the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion of the alpine region; 2, ensuring accessibility and connectivity for all the inhabitants of the alpine region (cross-border transport, intermodal links with the hinterland); 3, ensuring sustainability in the alps: protecting the alpine heritage and promoting the sustainable use of natural and cultural resources (environment, cross-border habitats and biodiversity).
the strategy is built on three pillars: improving competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion; ensuring accessibility and connectivity for all in the region through infrastructure modernisation; and ensuring sustainability in the alps.
it will also help the eu to achieve the europe 2020 headline targets in the areas of sustainable development, environment, energy.
unfortunately, despite these facts, the region faces many common problems in the areas of environment, demography, transport, tourism and energy consumption.
i think the strategy is particularly well-suited to the sustainable development of the alpine region and to promoting growth throughout europe and mutual solidarity between mountain areas and the foothills of the alps.
i believe that the eu strategy for the alpine region will ensure the development of the region in line with the objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in addition, the region has many specific features, ranging from its unique biodiversity and cultural heritage to its negative aspects, such as its isolation, lack of infrastructure and the so-called brain drain.
in addition, the new strategy addresses mobility, connectivity and energy security.
to achieve this, it will be necessary to change the working environment and to integrate a lifelong approach to work-life balance policies so that everyone is supported and can participate actively in the labour market at different stages of their lives.
it should be reiterated that all political leaders have their responsibility in gabon to maintain peace in the post-electoral environment.
the only thing that will help is a fundamental improvement in the business environment.
i am very positive that, compared to other land transport modes, inland waterway transport is energy efficient, safe, almost free of congestion and quiet.
although the construction of waterways is demanding and permanently alters the landscape, modern technology has reduced the environmental impact.
monitoring of the contribution to sustainable fair trade will be particularly important in the context of gmp.
all relevant measures should help to create sustainable development in the african countries concerned.
we will create the conditions to strengthen their sustainable development.
this development-oriented regional trade agreement currently only covers provisions on trade in goods, development cooperation and sustainable development, but also leaves open the possibility of negotiating other provisions on services, investment and others.
i believe that we have reached an agreement which not only contributes to sustainable economic development but can also help to promote structural reforms.
while this eu-sadc-pa (botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, south africa and swaziland) regional trade agreement with a development focus currently only includes provisions on trade in goods, development cooperation and trade and sustainable development, it also leaves open the possibility of negotiating additional provisions on services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement and improved provisions on sustainable development.
i am therefore pleased that the economic partnership agreement not only prevented the break-up of the world's oldest existing customs union by amending the market access regulation, but also defined a comprehensive list of areas in which the partners will cooperate to enhance sustainable development.
i supported the resolution because i believe that this agreement will also bring positive changes at the partnership level and will contribute to sustainable economic growth and deeper trade and integration between the regions.
although this agreement only covers provisions on trade in goods, development cooperation and trade and sustainable development, i believe that the two parties will also negotiate further provisions on services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement and better provisions on sustainable development in the coming periods.
implementation of this proposal will therefore not only improve the working conditions of fishermen at sea, but also reduce the incentive to engage in illegal fishing and contribute to healthy and sustainable fisheries.
i believe that in order to make the process of democratization sustainable, we must help tunisia.
at the same time, it creates an environment for unfair competition practices.
i believe that, in order to achieve a strong and sustainable competitiveness in all member states, the posting of workers will not be a source of social dumping but will facilitate the posting of workers in an environment of fairer competition and respect for the rights of workers employed in one member state and temporarily posted by their employer to work in another member state.
we need to reach an agreement with the commission that sets out rules on investor information in the current volatile financial environment.
the report sets out key objectives such as increasing the employment rate of people aged 20-64, creating a good working environment or reducing the number of people living in poverty.
in addition to supporting training and retraining projects, we should place particular emphasis on improving the business environment and promoting job creation in the private sector.
the union, which has been a party to the convention since july 2015, considers cites to be the key international convention for the protection of biodiversity and the fight against illegal trade.
the conference will be a unique opportunity to consolidate international cooperation, which is indispensable in environmental protection.
i supported the resolution because i see a great potential in smes for creating new and sustainable quality jobs.
i expect the commission and the member states to ensure a stable and transparent legal environment and coordination, coherence and synergies between the various instruments and programmes for the benefit of smes.
throughout the report, the rapporteur also stressed that in order to achieve an environment for development and to strengthen the job-creating potential of smes, national and european policies must address issues such as regulatory uncertainty, the problem of illegal work and ensuring the competitiveness of smes vis-à-vis large companies.
the primary objective of the egf is to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to promote sustainable employment by preparing and supporting redundant workers for new employment.
the egf aims to promote sustainable employment by training redundant workers for new jobs and was set up to deal with emergencies by providing rapid intervention and short-term assistance in response to urgent and unforeseen labour market problems involving large-scale redundancies.
‒ at the paris climate conference in december 2015, 187 countries adopted the un framework convention on climate change, whose main objective is to achieve an early global cap on greenhouse gas emissions and climate neutrality by the second half of the century.
the negative impacts of climate change have become so severe that global action on the issue is essential.
the agreement requires, inter alia, that global warming be kept below 2 degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels, that the temperature increase be limited to a maximum of 1,5 degrees celsius, and that a global transition to clean energy be made essential.
the signing of the climate agreement cannot happen without the eu, the continent's leading role in the fight against global climate change.
‒ the european union and its member states have for many years been leading the world in the fight against climate change.
the paris agreement represents a major step forward for the world in the fight against climate change, leading to many collective actions at the global level.
these measures are intended to contribute to the creation of a globally climate-neutral global economy that is resilient to climate change.
currently, only 2% of global emissions are still short of the ratification targets, as the requirement for at least 55 parties to the convention has already been met.
‒ the paris agreement aims to achieve climate neutrality through a fundamental shift in greenhouse gas emissions reductions and a gradual transition to new technologies.
in the second half of this century, only as many emissions will be able to be released as nature can handle.
the european union accounts for around 12% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
the paris agreement requires the ratification and deposit of relevant instruments at the un by at least 55 parties to the convention, which together account for an estimated 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions, in order to enter into force.
the paris agreement, adopted on 12 december 2015 under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), represents a decisive shift from small-scale actions to comprehensive and collective action at the global level the agreement now has 191 signatories.
the agreement shall be open for signature from 22 april 2016 and shall enter into force when at least 55 parties to the convention, which together account for at least 55% of global greenhouse gas emissions, have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession at the united nations.
to date, the agreement has been ratified by 62 parties, which together account for approximately 52% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
i believe that a decision to ratify the conclusion of the paris agreement at member state and eu level by the end of 2016 at the latest would contribute to highlighting the position of the eu and its member states, their continued efforts to address climate change at international level, as well as the overall international effort to combat climate change.
‒ the paris climate agreement is not just about the environment, but it is one of the last possible global peace agreements.
expected climate change could trigger a major migration of peoples, which is already causing armed conflict.
the promotion of clean alternative energy sources is in turn deliberately replacing oil and natural gas, for which mankind has waged increasingly bloody wars in recent decades.
each of us must be aware of the urgency of protecting the air and the need to reduce greenhouse gases to keep our planet green for future generations.
the paris agreement sets a long-term objective of limiting global warming to well below 20c compared to pre-industrial levels and to work towards limiting the temperature increase to 1,5c.
the agreement establishes a framework for greater transparency and accountability, including the biennial submission of greenhouse gas inventories by all parties, as well as the submission of information needed to monitor their progress.
the eu has always been at the forefront of climate and air protection, and today's vote, with 610 meps voting in favour of the paris agreement, is a testament to that.
countries like china have joined our cause, without which any climate agreement would be ineffective.
the long-term objective of the new agreement is to keep global warming below 2°c, with countries committing to take measures that, ideally, will increase global temperatures by a maximum of 1.5°c.
the paris agreement is a historic milestone in the fight against climate change and a legally binding instrument that has set itself ambitious targets.
these objectives will be pursued by all parties, in particular by reducing greenhouse gas emissions but also by increasing the share of renewable energy.
finding a new job is not easy, it takes a lot of energy, patience and help.
it calls for the fight against poverty and inequality and the promotion of sustainable development to remain the main objective of this cooperation.
the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals should form the basis of the new agreement.
cooperation should be pursued in areas of common interest where mutual benefits can be expected, not only in economic aspects but also in peace and security, human rights and the rule of law, good governance and democracy, migration, the environment, climate change and other areas related to the prosperity of both acp and eu citizens.
‒ the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part, was signed in cotonou as early as 2000. it was revised in 2005 and 2010. the objective of the cotonou agreement was to reduce and finally eradicate poverty in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp countries into the world economy.
i am convinced that if we want to improve the effectiveness of cooperation, we must adapt it to new challenges and areas of common interest where common benefits can be expected, not only in terms of economic aspects, but also in terms of peace and security, human rights and the rule of law, good governance and democracy, migration, the environment, climate change, but also other areas related to the prosperity of the acp-eu population.
‒ i supported the report on the future of relations between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states after 2020. currently, relations with 79 countries, most of them among the world's least developed, are governed by the cotonou agreement, which deals with new global challenges, including climate change, migration and the threat of terrorism.
however, this agreement expires in 2019. the report highlighted the unique success of the mutual cooperation and confirmed that the main objectives will be to fight poverty and promote sustainable development even after the cotonou agreement has expired.
this year, we are adding a border and coast guard with new powers of return policy, we are launching a system that records data on people entering and leaving the eu and into the eu, we are implementing our priorities, such as fighting tax fraud, tax evasion, taxing profits where they are made, completing the banking union, so that people's deposits are protected and that when banks have problems, it is the owners who are involved, not all the residents, we are continuing the energy union project to guarantee the security of energy supply and the cheapest energy possible.
it is therefore crucial that we focus more on creating opportunities and increasing productivity for small farmers, who are the biggest actors in agricultural production, and in doing so ensure sustainable agriculture and food systems.
the european union has the ambition to become a global leader in meeting target 2 of the 2030 agenda sustainable development, which aims to end hunger and malnutrition in the world by 2030. at the same time, while about one third of the food produced worldwide is thrown away, some 842 million people worldwide suffer from hunger.
one of the main challenges will therefore be to adapt food systems to eliminate food loss and waste.
member states must strengthen their commitments to global food security by prioritising sustainable agriculture and local food production, with support for smallholder farmers as food producers being key.
coordination and acceleration of actions by global, national and local governments, non-governmental and private actors, including scientific and industrial research institutions and donors, to address malnutrition is therefore essential to meet the objectives of the 2030 agenda as well as sustainable development goal 2 on the elimination of hunger.
‒ this report calls on the commission in particular to increase its investment in nutrition-specific interventions, given the current huge funding gap, and to address under-nutrition and food waste.
as i believe that the sustainable development goals need to be met, i voted in favour.
88 million tonnes of food waste are produced in the eu every year.
the eu must therefore play a greater role in the field of nutrition and food security in the world, taking effective action against food waste and ensuring adequate nutrition for children and vulnerable people, especially women, mothers and the elderly.
it also called on the commission to play a more active role in food safety and stressed the need to combat food waste and to promote nutrition education programmes.
‒ the caterpillar and alstom cases are examples of the shifting of business activities and capital to a more financially favourable environment for entrepreneurs.
‒ europe has a social market economy aimed at achieving sustainable and inclusive economic growth, but there is no real eu industrial policy that also protects eu workers.
our aim is to create a stable environment for businesses to develop fully and create new jobs.
the commission's annual report on monitoring the application of european union law finds that the most cases of failure by member states to comply with their obligations fall in the areas of environment, transport, internal market and services.
the resolution focuses, among other things, on the need to ratify the paris agreement, the european union's climate ambitions before 2020, as well as the need to reduce co2 emissions.
the resolution welcomes the paris agreement as a successful milestone in the fight against climate change.
‒ by ratifying the paris agreement, the european parliament has sent a clear signal about the importance of climate change.
the agreement will enter into force 30 days after it has been ratified by at least 55 states representing at least 55% of global emissions.
to date, 62 countries have signed it, representing 52% of their emissions.
addressing the need for climate change affects all sectors of the economy with major implications for the quality of the environment and the protection of health and life on our planet in general.
the 22nd conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (cop 22) will be held in marrakech, morocco, from 7 to 18 november 2016. the main points of discussion will be: the role of non-state actors, the need for a comprehensive effort across all sectors, the reduction of co2 emissions, resilience to climate change through adaptation, climate diplomacy, etc.
the paris agreement on climate change is a successful milestone in the fight against climate change, and is also significant for its multilateral nature.
a global policy framework for regulating aviation and maritime transport is needed to reduce emissions from international aviation and maritime transport, which was absent from the paris agreement.
the union and its member states should continue to be actively involved in the so-called 'coalition of high ambition', including by supporting the moroccan presidency in its focus on the contribution of renewable energy sources and adaptation measures in the global fight against the negative phenomena of climate change.
ambitious energy efficiency targets in the eu can help to achieve an ambitious climate target while reducing the risk of carbon leakage.
finally, energy efficiency and renewable sources are among the main objectives of the eu's energy union.
‒ the according to 2014 scientific evidence, warming of the climate system is undeniable, climate change is occurring, and human activity is the main cause of the observed warming since the mid-20th century.
the far-reaching and significant impacts of climate change are already evident in natural and human systems on all continents and in the oceans.
the un climate change conference in marrakech should follow up on the paris agreement, in particular in the area of climate finance and capacity building.
the eu has the ability, but also the obligation, to lead by example and to start working immediately to align its climate and energy objectives with the agreed international target of limiting the increase in average global temperature to below 2°c, while also aiming to limit the increase to 1,5°c.
the intensification of climate change mitigation actions in the period before 2020 is a prerequisite for achieving the long-term goals of the paris agreement and a key element for assessing the success of cop 22 in marrakech.
‒ the european union is coming to cop 22 with concrete proposals that strike a balance between the need to slow down global warming and the need not to jeopardise industrial production and jobs.
modernisation and digitalisation in industry, motoring and agriculture are tools that will play a key role in the fight against pollution of the planet.
like the paris conference, the 22nd will address the need to keep global warming below 2°c and ideally below 1.5°c.
the report also addresses the need for adaptation measures for the population in relation to climate change.
the petition data show that there is a preponderance of alleged breaches of eu law in the following areas: fundamental rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities and persons with disabilities, discrimination mainly on the basis of nationality , internal market, free movement, transport, environment, education, employment and health.
as in the past, most cases of failure by member states to fulfil their obligations fall within the areas of environment, transport and internal market and services.
‒ the commission's audit of the effective application of union law has revealed shortcomings, in particular in the areas of the environment, transport, the internal market and services.
this year's annual report on the application of eu law in the individual member states of the union highlighted shortcomings, particularly in the areas of the environment, transport and the internal market.
‒ this annual report concerns infringement cases in the eu in the areas of the environment, transport, the single market and services.
‒ i supported the ep motion for a resolution on monitoring the application of union law annual report 2014. the report states that the environment, transport and the internal market and services remained the policy areas with the highest number of infringement cases opened in 2014. the report therefore shows that the enforcement of union law is not sufficiently transparent.
the report notes that the number of these infringement complaints has decreased, while also suggesting a possible solution to the persisting number of complaints relating to the environment, transport or the single market, which could be a longer implementation period.
‒ i believe that until the cultivation of genetically modified varieties and species has proven to be highly beneficial for european farmers both from an environmental and economic point of view, there is no point in taking even the slightest risk in authorising them.
i consider that the commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objectives of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which is in accordance with the precautionary principle with a view to approximating the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and protecting human health and the environment in the event of deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any purpose other than placing on the market within the community and placing genetically modified organisms on the market as or in products within the community.
if such gmos were to be cross-bred and spread, there could be a threat to biodiversity and risks for farmers.
nor do we have sufficient information on their effects on the environment.
according to scientific studies, it may have adverse effects on the environment.
the commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objectives of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council to protect human health and the environment in the event of the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment for any purpose other than placing on the market within the community or placing genetically modified organisms on the market as or in products within the community.
‒ i believe that until the cultivation of genetically modified varieties and species has proven to be highly beneficial for european farmers both from an environmental and economic point of view, there is no point in taking even the slightest risk in authorising them.
i consider that the commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is incompatible with the objectives of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which is in accordance with the precautionary principle with a view to approximating the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and protecting human health and the environment in the event of deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms for any purpose other than placing on the market within the community or placing genetically modified organisms on the market as or in products within the community.
if such gmos were to be cross-bred and spread, there could be a threat to biodiversity and risks for farmers.
nor do we have sufficient information on their effects on the environment.
‒ i believe that until the cultivation of genetically modified varieties and species has proven to be highly beneficial for european farmers both from an environmental and economic point of view, there is no point in taking even the slightest risk in authorising them.
i agree with the view that the draft commission implementing decision is not in line with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which, according to the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, is to provide a basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
i believe that we should stick to the principle that until we have sufficient information on the effects of such crops on human health or the environment, they should not be grown in europe at all.
if such cross-breeding and spread were to occur, it could threaten biodiversity and could also pose risks to farmers.
nor do we have sufficient information on their effects on the environment.
‒ i believe that until the cultivation of genetically modified varieties and species has proven to be highly beneficial for european farmers both from an environmental and economic point of view, there is no point in taking even the slightest risk in authorising them.
‒ i agree that the european parliament is asking the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products derived from genetically modified maize mon 810. i consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which, according to the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, is to provide a basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
i believe that we should stick to the principle that until we have sufficient information on the effects of such crops on human health or the environment, they should not be grown in europe at all.
nor do we have sufficient information on their effects on the environment.
‒ i believe that until the cultivation of genetically modified varieties and species has proven to be highly beneficial for european farmers both from an environmental and economic point of view, there is no point in taking even the slightest risk in authorising them.
i consider that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which, according to the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002, is to provide a basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
‒ i supported the objection against the placing of genetically modified cotton on the european market because i agree with the environment committee that the commission's implementing decision in this matter goes beyond the scope of its implementing powers.
nor do we have sufficient information on their effects on the environment.
the eu can be an important partner for iran; however, we will need to find mutual understanding beyond the use of nuclear energy.
‒ the development of rail transport is one of the important factors in meeting the european commission's objectives of re-industrialising europe, connecting the regions, increasing labour mobility and reducing air pollution from car and truck exhaust.
‒ like the development of rail transport, the development of waterways is a way of increasing the volume of goods transported while reducing exhaust emissions.
these are mainly trade, environmental protection, aviation safety and many others.
a frequently-mentioned topic is the european union's energy dependence on a single supplier, which could be changed with the help of iran, which has one of the largest gas and oil reserves in the world.
‒ corruption damages the economies of the member states and the eu, is a source of illicit income, and also harms competition and the business environment.
migration is a frequently discussed phenomenon today, influenced by a variety of factors, whether it's economic, social and political conditions, or conditions related to work, violence, security, the deteriorating environment in a country.
in it, we reminded corporations that in today's globalised and internationalised business environment, their role in protecting human rights is even greater and that they should be able to take responsibility for any violation of them.
in the future, we must focus on efficient and renewable sources of investment in liquefied gas in the european union, but we must also not forget that it has potential and uses as a fossil fuel.
the eu lng and gas storage strategy is part of the package of legislative proposals on the union's energy policy presented by the european commission in early 2016. the strategy sets out objectives to be achieved as part of building a resilient energy union that is sufficiently competitive with the american, asian and arab markets and ensures secure, affordable and environmentally friendly energy.
if i understand the strategy's focus to promote the development and application of renewable energy sources correctly, since they are to account for 100% of european production by 2100, natural gas is seen as merely a transition from heavy fossil fuels to cleaner energy sources.
as many eu countries still do not have diversified their energy sources, i supported this strategy.
in the long term, europe will need to reduce its dependence on gas consumption in order to meet the eu's climate and energy targets as committed in the paris climate agreement.
‒ our priority is to find new, efficient and environmentally friendly energy sources and thus reduce our dependence on russia.
‒ the report on the european union strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage is largely related to the challenge we are facing more and more, namely to ensure a resilient energy union.
ideally, member states should have more energy sources and should not be dependent on a single foreign supplier.
this can not only bring more energy diversity but also an environmentally sustainable energy source as an alternative to traditional energy sources.
that is why i think we should at least make a qualified debate on this subject and carefully weigh all its pros and cons while ensuring the highest level of environmental protection.
‒ this resolution underlines, among other things, the need to ensure effective control of fishing activities in order to guarantee the sustainable use of living marine resources and to maintain a level playing field between eu fleets.
i also supported the resolution because it is necessary to control fishing activities in order to achieve the highest possible environmental protection and sustainable fishing as such.
implementing the mechanism would be a duplication and a waste of money.
the main areas are competitiveness for growth and employment, economic, social and territorial cohesion, sustainable growth and natural resources, security and citizenship, global europe and administration.
‒ the european union is currently facing many crises and challenges, such as the migration crisis, the agricultural crisis, high youth unemployment, the ratification of the climate change agreement.
‒ plant health is a key factor for the future and presentation of a sustainable and competitive agricultural and forestry industry in the european union.
due to climate change and globalisation of trade, there is an increasing penetration of foreign pests into the union countries.
these pose a potential risk to human and animal life and health and to the protection of the environment.
the objective is to eliminate risks and to establish practices and measures for the protection of plant health, with a focus on plant production, forests, native and artificially planted areas, natural ecosystems and biodiversity in the union.
the risk of introduction of various pests into the union territory is increasing due to the globalisation of trade and climate change.
‒ plant protection has always been a key factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry.
as plants and trees in europe are not usually genetically resistant to pests from other continents and present a high probability of penetration for europe in the future, it is essential that we examine and overcome those shortcomings and put in place a robust, transparent and sustainable regulatory framework that is fit for purpose.
‒ climate change and increased movement of goods are bringing invasive and non-native species of plants and animals into the european union.
the overall state of the eu economies is marked by a deteriorating international environment, a lack of sustainable reforms, but also by differences in economic and social outcomes across the union.
member states should therefore make greater efforts to stimulate long-term sustainable growth and the creation of quality jobs.
the slowdown in economic growth is due to the deteriorating international environment and the failure to implement sustainable reforms, as well as differences in economic and social outcomes across the eu.
the fight against poverty and social exclusion must be a priority for all member states, as they have a fundamental impact on sustainable economic growth.
‒ i supported the resolution of the parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi).
our policy should aim to support projects that will enable the modernisation, gradual opening-up and development of belarus such as mobility partnerships, investments in infrastructure modernisation, environmental protection, education or the development of bilateral trade.
‒ i have decided to support the discharge to be given to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. this discharge was originally postponed in april this year because the long-awaited and repeatedly delayed iter action plan had still not been published.
there will be no sustainable solution if there is no political empowerment of the minorities returning to their homelands in sinjar, tal afar and the nineveh plains.
the establishment of a sustainable and inclusive post-military structure in the region will be essential.
together with the convention on the physical protection of nuclear material, they constitute a powerful tool to promote the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, global nuclear disarmament and the prevention and investigation of nuclear related offences.
it is therefore essential to intensify cooperation between countries on disarmament with a view to achieving an international binding instrument on disarmament and to creating the conditions for eliminating the possible misuse of nuclear energy.
it is also a means of mutual learning and cooperation, addressing many of the social, societal and environmental needs and challenges of the world today.
these differences have a negative impact on social structure and sustainable long-term economic growth.
the report also draws attention to the bee ecosystem and acknowledges that they are in a state of threat throughout the eu.
according to this report, the solutions were mainly aimed at making the agricultural environment attractive to attract new businesses and thus create new jobs.
the new regulation aims in particular to achieve sustainable exploitation of cod stocks in selected areas.
the adjustment follows the regulation on the recovery of the cod stock which was adopted in 2008. i think that closely monitoring the population of individual fish species and adjusting their fishing opportunities is very important for the conservation of biodiversity.
the primary objective of the european central bank is to maintain price stability by creating a stable investment environment.
‒ consumer financial products are becoming increasingly complex and therefore care must be taken to ensure that consumers can identify and compare safe, sustainable and simple products in the range of products available to them.
at present, terrorism, hybrid threats, organised crime, cyberattacks and climate change are the main security threats.
‒ water transport plays a key role in connecting the different regions of the european union in an environmentally friendly and more energy-efficient way of transport, which can also include the use of new, innovative technologies such as solar and wind energy, and therefore greater emphasis should be placed on waterborne passenger transport in the union.
in line with the cop21 agreements, it is important that better use of available capacities in the area of waterborne passenger transport not only helps to reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improves air quality and provides better transport services overall.
road infrastructure in europe has long been overburdened, and we must therefore look for ways to lighten it while helping the environment by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
there are many areas in europe where travelling by ferry or cruise ship would be more sustainable, easier and faster, while enhancing the social and economic well-being of the region, protecting europe's environment and the health of its citizens.
in addition to the financial benefits, congestion on european roads will be reduced, passenger safety will be improved, air quality will be improved and environmental protection will be enhanced through the use of modern technologies and fuels.
not only would congestion be reduced, but co2 emissions would be reduced, air quality would be improved and, therefore, better transport services in general would be provided.
although shipping is one of the most sustainable modes of travel, there is further potential, for example, to produce more environmentally efficient vessels through investment in research and innovation.
water transport offers a safe, environmentally friendly and energy-efficient alternative, for which europe has all the necessary geographical and natural conditions.
i also believe that co2 emissions should be reduced even more in this transport mode.
in writing ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on unlocking the potential of passenger water transport because i already consider passenger water transport to be one of the most sustainable modes of transport of any kind and i think that this form of transport deserves to be put in the forefront.
i am convinced that europe's geographical conditions, with its long coasts, many islands and rivers, create exceptional opportunities for sustainable passenger water transport, and i believe that in the near future they will play an even more important role in connecting the different regions of the eu.
better use of excess vessel and infrastructure capacity will help regional connectivity and development, the environment and facilitate land transport.
therefore, a framework should be designed that also ensures quality, safety and environmental sustainability.
i think the subject of passenger water transport is very interesting at the moment and we should think about it as one of the sustainable and environmentally friendly options to relieve the burden of very busy road transport.
at this meeting, innovative approaches to sustainable development need to be identified and the roles and responsibilities of the different development actors clearly defined.
one area where the gpedc could make a significant contribution is responsibility for development effectiveness aimed at implementing the sustainable development goals.
as stated in the document 'transforming our world: the 2030 agenda for sustainable development' adopted at the un summit on sustainable development, all countries should pay serious attention to policies and their implementation for sustainable development.
i am pleased that the report addresses private sector actors and that it draws attention to the need for private sector actors to take responsibility for achieving sustainable development, for example by adhering to the ilo core labour standards or the guidelines on the human rights responsibility of businesses.
development aid must continue, particularly on issues such as poverty eradication and the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
the gpedc, which focuses not only on monitoring the implementation of the principles of aid effectiveness and development but also on the relationships between the various actors, can provide added value for the forum on financing for development, which is involved in the implementation and monitoring of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
development cooperation plays an important role in achieving the sustainable development goals.
we have eur 27 billion of esf funding that will be invested in education, training skills and lifelong learning from 2014 to 2020. in addition, eur 21 billion is available for social inclusion, and eur 30 billion for sustainable and high-quality employment, which can also support the integration of people with low skills.
further postponement of ratification of the agreement is damaging to the union's economy and business environment.
‒ the european union is seen as a leader in the fight against air pollution and climate change.
the european commission will have to focus more on regulating the many sectors of the economy that contribute to air pollution in the future.
a good example is the automotive industry, where the european commission should present a euro 6c emissions regulation as soon as possible.
in writing ‒ poor environmental and air quality impacts on quality of life, damages the natural environment and vegetation, which impairs the health of the population and increases public health expenditure.
the cost of treating air pollution-related diseases in europe is estimated at between eur 330 and 940 billion per year.
in writing the reduction of emissions to air is an integral part of the european union's environmental policy, in which the union not only fulfils its international commitments but also strives to maintain its position as a world leader in this field.
the present report reflects the initiative of the commission and the council to revise the legislation to combat air emissions at national level.
the dangerous substances which member states must unconditionally limit to the lowest possible level are in particular sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds other than methane and ammonia, solid particles with a diameter of at least 2,5 micrometres and methane emissions.
air pollutants cause smog and acid rain, have a negative impact on the environment, and contribute to various diseases.
in writing ‒ while the eu and its member states have made some progress in reducing air pollution, i too must say that many member states are not meeting all the agreed standards.
i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i believe that if we are to meet the long-term air quality objectives, we must adopt measures to ensure that pollution from medium combustion plants such as power stations for large buildings and small industrial plants is reduced.
i believe that the ceilings for the target dates set out in the report will not only provide a sufficient incentive to reduce emissions, but will also be set at a level that is realistic, proportionate, feasible and will not have a disproportionate impact on any sector.
in writing ‒ the fight against air pollution must be undertaken at the level of the european union as a whole.
in writing ‒ i supported the report on emissions of certain air pollutants.
the new regulation thus sets binding national limits for selected air pollutants for the period up to 2030. air pollution remains a major problem despite the progress made in this area.
air pollution is responsible for a host of diseases, premature deaths, and problems caused by subsequent climate change.
i therefore appreciate that the revision has set itself ambitious objectives in this regard, which include not only reducing adverse impacts on public health and the environment, but also creating new jobs and developing innovative 'green' technologies.
‒ the european security environment has deteriorated significantly in recent times, becoming more flexible, more dangerous and less predictable.
in writing the security environment in europe has deteriorated substantially in recent times as a result of conflicts in its neighbourhood.
‒ the security environment in the eu has deteriorated significantly and is becoming increasingly unstable, dangerous and unpredictable.
in writing ‒ this proposal envisages the authorisation of the substance benzazone for a period of 15 years, until 31 january 2032. several studies have shown that the substance benzozone is harmful to the environment.
the assessment of the representative uses of the active substance benzazone is not sufficient to conclude that, for at least one of the typical uses, it can be expected that the plant protection product containing the active substance benzazone will not have adverse effects on human or animal health or on groundwater or have an unacceptable effect on the environment.
in case of doubt about the effects of substances on public health and the environment, the commission cannot propose the approval of substances without a proper investigation.
however, because of its essential properties, bentazone has a high potential to penetrate groundwater, as confirmed by data from the united kingdom environment agency showing that bentazone is the most commonly detected approved pesticide in groundwater in the united kingdom and is also present in surface water; the situation is similar across europe.
the precautionary principle to be applied in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 requires that the commission does not approve active substances in cases where there is a risk to public health or the environment.
there is insufficient information on the safety of the substance bentazone, and an assessment based on representative uses of bentazone is not sufficient to conclude that a plant protection product containing the active substance bentazone will not have adverse effects on human or animal health, on groundwater or on the environment.
namely, the emis committee, which is investigating the emissions scandal, and where i act as the sole representative of slovakia.
the proposal contains a european union macro-financial commitment to jordan of eur 200 million to be provided as a medium-term loan to help jordan finance the country's external needs in 2016 2017. the european commission is considering an agreement with jordan in the future, which should commit to the necessary structural reforms that should bring sustainable economic growth to the country.
work on a ceasefire must be intensified to create the time and the peaceful environment for a peaceful settlement of the conflict.
the eu action plan against illicit wildlife trade is part of the eu's response to the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, in particular sustainable development goal 15, which calls for not only ensuring an end to poaching and illegal trade in protected species, but also addressing the demand for and supply of illegal wildlife products.
‒ i fully support the report, as illegal trade in wildlife has a significant negative impact on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of the countries of origin, natural resources and the protection of species.
i believe that trade and development policies should aim to increase respect for human rights, animal welfare and the environment, amongst other things.
wildlife crime is a matter of transnational concern and its negative impacts on biodiversity, as well as the possible financing of further crime through the proceeds of illegal wildlife trade, should be clearly recognised.
it points out that all transport companies are under pressure to offer safe, sustainable, highly competitive, innovative, cop21-compliant and environmentally-friendly solutions.
compliance with international requirements and standards in the field of nuclear and environmental safety must be ensured.
this also represents a significant step forward in the area of more regular and enhanced political dialogue aimed at protecting the islands' vulnerable environment, in particular in relation to climate change on the one hand and the protection of human rights on the other.
the solomon islands, as a member of the commonwealth, has been engaged in political dialogue with the eu since 1976. the dialogue focuses on environmental protection, in the face of climate change, and on the protection of human rights and gender equality.
the european union has been working with the country on sustainable agricultural and human resource development since 1990. i consider it important to note that visa-free travel will only apply to stays of 90 days for a period of 180 days and to persons travelling for reasons other than the purpose of pursuing an economic activity.
this also represents a significant step forward in the area of more regular and enhanced political dialogue focused on protecting the vulnerable environment, in particular in relation to climate change on the one hand and the protection of human rights on the other.
this will strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues such as environmental protection and climate change and human rights and fundamental freedoms.
it is one of the poorest countries in the pacific region and one of the countries most exposed to the impacts of climate change.
the eu is engaged in a dialogue with tuvalu on environmental protection in a changing climate, as well as on the impact of climate change on human rights.
many natural disasters are caused by climate change, so investments in climate change prevention and mitigation are also needed.
‒ the in the european union, climate change has led to a significant increase in the number, severity and intensity of natural disasters.
the european commission has proposed to amend the budget and increase the resources to help member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy.
the commission has proposed to amend the 2016 budget and to increase the appropriations for assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy by eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations.
we should learn how to work with the budget effectively instead of constantly increasing it, which really is not a sustainable solution in the long term.
‒ this report focuses on the importance of a thorough review of existing compensation systems in individual member states, which ensure that air polluters are liable not only for environmental damage but also for other damages such as personal injury or property damage.
‒ the treaty on the functioning of the eu declares the right of member states to determine the conditions for the use of their energy resources, while respecting solidarity and environmental protection.
the use of own resources is important for energy security and diversity, and the issue of accident prevention in such activity is also crucial.
the maritime safety directive, adopted in 2010, imposes an objective responsibility on the holders of a maritime operations permit to prevent and remedy any environmental damage caused by their operations.
as offshore oil and gas exploration and production operations are taking place in increasingly extreme environments and can potentially have serious and devastating consequences for the environment and the economy of marine and coastal areas, i agree that stricter rules on civil liability for maritime accidents should be established at eu and member state level.
i supported the current resolution because i believe it is important to have effective and adequate compensation mechanisms and swift and adequate redress mechanisms for people, animals and the environment as victims of damage caused by offshore exploration and production operations, as well as sufficient resources to restore key ecosystems.
accidents on such installations can have serious consequences for the environment, but also for tourism, for example.
although there has been no major accident in the european union since 1988, there have been thousands of minor accidents that have also left their mark on the environment.
‒ the african continent has the greatest potential in renewable energy, but it is still lagging behind in electrification, especially in rural areas, which is also linked to the unfinished infrastructure in which african countries will invest billions in the future.
there is a wealth of evidence and a broad consensus that decentralised, small-scale renewable energy generation and local grids and off-grid solutions are often the most effective, that such solutions contribute most to overall development progress and that they minimise or prevent most adverse environmental impacts.
‒ the ensuring access to affordable energy can simultaneously address key challenges in protecting the environment, air and ecosystems.
the transition to modern and ecological fuels will prevent unwanted logging and the possible depletion of wood resources.
the african developing countries have a high potential for renewable resources.
appropriate and effective development and social policies can provide affordable energy to the african population without further damaging the environment.
‒ as access to energy without any doubt accelerates development, i was happy to support this motion for a resolution.
with its focus on sustainable energy it also takes into account the environmental point of view as well as the potential of renewable sources of energy in africa.
‒ i consider access to energy to be a prerequisite for economic and human development in all developing countries.
i see africa as the continent with the most renewable energy potential on the planet, but the continent that is lagging behind in electrification.
nearly 2.3 billion people use traditional biomass, such as charcoal, for cooking, with serious consequences for health and the environment.
i think we could talk about other unflattering figures that speak to the lack of access to energy in developing countries, but in my view, it is important to improve the cooperation between the financing agencies, the private sector and the governments of developing countries in order to achieve the goals.
i therefore support all initiatives at international level to promote access to sustainable energy in developing countries, especially in africa, but at the same time i expect that we will improve their coordination at eu level in order to increase efficiency.
‒ access to energy is one of the key factors for development.
however, the elimination of energy poverty must be consistent with climate change and trade policies.
‒ i supported the resolution on energy access with a focus on developing countries.
in the resolution, we underlined the need for more intensive efforts by governments and other stakeholders to alleviate energy poverty.
in particular, traditional biomass is used in africa, which has adverse effects on human health and the environment.
at the same time, it is important to take into account the potential of developing countries in the field of renewable energy sources.
the european union must lead not only in economic and environmental policies but also in civil and fundamental rights, giving direction to its member states.
i believe that the european union must be at the forefront, not only of economic and environmental issues, but also of civil and fundamental rights, and show the way to the member states.
we are now offering the same assistance to algeria, which is also an important partner for us in the diversification of energy sources.
algeria is a major regional player, especially in energy production.
‒ i supported the resolution because i believe it is right to ensure, in accordance with the united nations general assembly resolutions, in particular resolutions 61/105 and 64/72, the protection of sensitive deep-sea ecosystems from the impact of bottom fishing gear and the sustainable exploitation of deep-sea fish stocks.
the proposal deals with the so-called high seas, where fishing takes place at depths of 600-800 m. however, such fishing, especially when using certain types of gear, causes irreversible damage to the environment and damages deep-sea ecosystems.
i think that the environment should be protected as much as possible and that, on the contrary, activities that lead to its, in this case irreversible, damage should be controlled.
‒ a coherent policy on cultural and creative industries is a strategic step towards creating new jobs, sustainable growth and fostering innovation and cultural heritage.
‒ i see the eastern partnership as the european union's attempt to extend and strengthen the value environment that is specific to europe, where we can build on cultural but also geographical proximity.
the rapid ratification of the paris agreement on climate change is a great achievement.
the fight against tax evasion and fraud, the migration crisis, helping third countries to prevent people from fleeing, the fight against terrorism, the new border and coastguard project, a strong social agenda, safe and cheap energy, digital europe, wholesale prices for roaming services, support for farmers, jobs and growth in europe... these are just some of the issues that we have jointly pushed forward significantly during the slovak presidency.
the presidency managed to bring up a number of politically sensitive issues, such as the paris agreement on climate change and the preparation for the completion of the agreement on the abolition of roaming in 2017. this was despite the turbulent situation in the union and the events surrounding the presidency at home.
thanks to our efforts, we were able to ratify the paris agreement on climate change very quickly and successfully.
in the same way, the eu pushed for r2b arms control, climate change, transitional justice and other issues.
unfortunately, this production also causes many negative social and environmental consequences that need to be gradually eliminated.
but in order to meet the commitments of the agreement in line with the principles of sustainable growth, its implementation will need to be continuously monitored.
in addition, ecuador's preferential status under the gsp+ scheme will also end at the end of 2016. that is why i think that its accession to the trade agreement will be very helpful in such a situation, and i believe that it will help ecuador to overcome a difficult economic period and motivate it to implement a new political direction towards sustainable economic and social development.
at the same time, the agreement contained measures to ensure sustainable fishing and the conservation of fish stocks in the area.
‒ the current legislation presented by the regulation is unfortunately no longer relevant to the current legal environment, as the european commission points out.
‒ the financial statements standardisation regulation was adopted before the liberalisation of the railway market and no longer corresponds to the existing legal environment.
i voted in favour of the motion for a legislative resolution because i believe that the regulation in question no longer corresponds to the current legal environment.
‒ the the introduction of mandatory tendering procedures for public service contracts will increase the pressure on the competitive environment in rail passenger transport and at the same time bring about a higher quality of service for users of these services.
increased transparency, competition and public tendering should strengthen cross-border cooperation and increase the quality of service and the attractiveness of rail passenger transport for citizens, which will have positive environmental, air and climate impacts in addition to economic and financial benefits.
‒ the railway package and the first debate on the energy union will directly affect the functioning of railways and the energy sector in europe.
‒ i supported the legislative resolutions because i believe that the proposed measures can contribute to a more efficient, better connected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network (ten-t), which links the land, sea and air routes of the member states into a single multimodal system.
we need to prepare them for the upcoming digitalisation and automation of transport so that they remain competitive while meeting all the european union's environmental and safety standards.
the research funded covers production processes, resource use, environmental improvements and occupational safety in the relevant sectors.
the research funded shall focus on production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvements and occupational safety in the relevant sectors.
research in these areas should in future focus mainly on innovation and efficiency of extraction, production and processing, which is also linked to the need to protect the air and the environment in general.
the research funded shall focus on production processes, resource use and conservation, environmental improvements and occupational safety in the relevant sectors.
on the other hand, i also welcomed the amendments which called for a slow change of direction, from maintaining the continuity of coal mining in europe at all costs to looking for alternatives, restoring the environment and creating other jobs not linked to coal and steel.
‒ the report underlines that the eu remains the world's largest economic power, the most generous donor of humanitarian and development assistance, and a leader in global multilateral diplomacy in areas such as climate change, national justice, non-proliferation and human rights.
today, the eu is the world's strongest economic bloc, the world's largest provider of humanitarian and development aid, and a leader in a number of technological fields, including the fight against climate change.
it will thus be able to play a more active role in preventing and resolving conflict situations in its immediate environment.
‒ the eu is currently facing internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state failure, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change.
a multifunctional and sustainable agricultural production is desirable.
globalisation of trade in agricultural products, climate change, animal and plant health affect the availability, price and quality of agricultural and food products.
unfortunately, despite the measures taken so far, price fluctuations continue to damage agriculture and the agri-food sector, and i therefore consider it essential to adopt at union level such instruments as will ensure multifunctional and sustainable agricultural production throughout the union, as well as fair and favourable prices.
moreover, farmers are currently threatened by climate factors in addition to price fluctuations.
finally, madam president, allow me to conclude by thanking all the members and colleagues of the committee on petitions for their cooperation so far and to wish them much energy and commitment for the future in this important work.
i think that in these cases, whether it's human health, the environment, or this phytosanitary safety objection, the fundamental principle that we have to follow is to protect the value of the data.
i very much appreciate the fact that the citizens of the european union are actively addressing issues relating in particular to environmental protection, consumer protection and justice.