but we must be careful, because what happens often, and has happened in this sector, is that there are large fishermen's monopolies, and the small and medium-sized fishermen are the most affected, and they are being excluded from this traditional, and i would say most ecological, fishing method.
i also think it is important to have a sense of responsibility for behaviour that is not in line with the fundamental values of the environment in which we live.
because, of course, it's not enough to just give resources, but it's necessary to put them into quality, sustainable jobs.
this is particularly important for those fishermen who fish bluefin tuna in the traditional way with traditional traps, which have a limited impact on marine ecosystems due to low energy consumption and low incidental catch.
i therefore believe that the key to tackling youth unemployment is to reform education systems appropriately and adapt them to a dynamic environment.
i agree that we need not only investment policies but also the necessary safeguards to improve the working environment.
these include everything from minimum requirements for worker safety to measures to protect workers and to improve the quality of the working environment accordingly.
it should also be noted that the proposal is in line with eu legislation governing energy supply and energy efficiency.
the change of the legal instrument from a directive to a regulation would, in line with the general political effort, result in better legislation and simplification of the regulatory environment.
the text of the regulation also contains a number of amendments which place greater emphasis on consumer protection and includes amendments on the precautions that should be taken to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning in humans.
the new directive, which simplifies the european regulatory environment, in particular by clarifying and harmonising the existing provisions, carries greater weight from the point of view of consumer protection.
i also support the amendments on precautions to prevent human carbon monoxide poisoning, which is the main cause of death associated with gas installations in europe.
since the proposed measures will further strengthen consumer protection, reduce the risk of accidents in the use of appliances and contribute to a more rational use of energy, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation.
however, member states remain competent to regulate other aspects related to cableway installations, such as land use, regional planning and environmental protection.
there is a need for uniform measures at european union level to lay down the essential requirements for safety and health, environmental and consumer protection applicable to cableway installations, subsystems and their safety components.
‒ baby food may have 30% of the energy content from sugar under the provisions of the delegated regulation.
it is right that the european union actively supports colombia in laying the foundations of democracy and sustainable peace.
and of course this agreement also allows a lot of space in the field of energy development, infrastructure and of course it opens up possibilities to solve environmental challenges, which are not negligible in kosovo.
it covers several sectors, including respect for and promotion of democratic principles and human rights, and establishes a framework for cooperation in sectors such as education, energy, environment, justice and home affairs.
the agreement should also, inter alia, open up possibilities for strengthening contacts with experts in relevant sectors (environment, fight against crime and illicit trafficking, culture, etc.)
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, of the one part, and kosovo, of the other part.
i hope that consumer confidence in the car industry will be restored and that effective measures will be taken to prevent the recurrence of emissions measurement infringements.
i agree that respect for human rights must be promoted in all areas related to peace and security, development cooperation, migration, trade and investment, humanitarian aid, climate change and the fight against terrorism.
as such, i can list cooperation between eu member states and the human rights council, the field of civil and political rights, social and economic rights, the importance of the participation of indigenous peoples, migration and refugee issues, climate rights, women's rights, etc.
preserving biodiversity is a matter of our survival.
the harmful indebtedness of the environment and future generations through bad practices in agriculture and other sectors needs to be addressed through concrete policies.
the common agricultural policy must be geared to supporting farming practices that are permanently geared to the conservation of biodiversity.
agricultural policy must have an environmental soul.
‒ as with the protocol on persistent organic pollutants, the proposal to amend the protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution sets out, in particular, stricter emission limit values for dust from certain major stationary sources, as well as flexible transitional arrangements that will benefit those parties that accede to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including countries in eastern and south-eastern europe.
these protocols are important because air pollution knows no national boundaries, and therefore proper cooperation and unification of protocols is the only possible option, and for this reason i support these solutions.
i supported the ratification of the 1998 protocol on heavy metals amendments to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, as this document confirms the commitments of member states and imposes enhanced responsibilities on them in their efforts to achieve cleaner air.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision adopting the amendment of the 1998 protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
much has been written about air pollution, and many studies have been conducted.
the amended protocol brings stricter limits for dust emissions from some major fixed sources as well as flexible transitional arrangements.
‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the adoption of the 1998 amendment to the protocol on heavy metals to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, as i consider it an important step towards a higher level of environmental and air protection in the union.
the new directive, which sets updated national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants and allows for the establishment of annual national emission inventories, will thus further upgrade the existing protocol, harmonise emissions across all member states and consequently improve the quality of life of eu citizens.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which contains a recommendation from the european parliament to accept a series of amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals.
the objective of this protocol is to control emissions of heavy metals caused by anthropogenic activities that are subject to long-range transboundary atmospheric transport and are likely to have significant adverse effects on human health or the environment.
the parties to the protocol agreed, among other things, to reduce their total annual emissions into the atmosphere of each of the heavy metals listed in its annex, to facilitate the exchange of technologies and techniques designed to reduce emissions of heavy metals and to encourage research, development, monitoring and cooperation, primarily focusing on heavy metals.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision adopting amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, which will set updated national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants and allow the introduction of annual national emission inventories covering, inter alia, emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury.
the ratification of the measures and commitments will make a significant contribution to reducing harm to human health and the environment and limiting cross-border air pollution.
‒ meps unanimously supported the amendment of the agreement, namely the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
the 1998 objectives to control, reduce or eliminate releases, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants are being upgraded by updates to the protocol, including seven new substances, updating of requirements for several substances and limits for emissions of dioxins and furans, etc.
the ratification of these amendments represents a significant step forward in the enhanced protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
i voted in favour of ratifying the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, as this is the first protocol to take account of multiple effects and seven additional pollutants.
in the ec we already have the knowledge and technology to commit waste incinerators to limiting the release of organic pollutants in a way that is less harmful to the environment.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision adopting amendments to the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution.
i support the amendments to the 1998 protocol which require the parties to abandon the production and use of substances which cause releases, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants.
‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the adoption of the 1998 protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, as i believe that ratification of the amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from air pollution.
pollution, which is an international problem, will thus be reduced and better controlled throughout the union by the introduction of annual national emission inventories in eu countries, covering, inter alia, emissions of persistent organic pollutants (including pahs, pcdds and pcdfs, hcbs and pcbs).
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which contains a recommendation from the european parliament to accept a series of amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants.
the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants aims to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of pops.
the amended protocol includes seven new substances, updates implementation requirements for several substances, updates restrictions for pcdd/pcdf emissions from several sources, and adds pcbs to the list of substances affected by the total annual emission restrictions and reporting obligations.
the amendments to the protocol are already largely covered by eu legislation, and will be further transposed via a new directive setting updated national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants.
‒ i support the amendments to the protocol, which will be further transposed by a new directive, which will set updated national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants and allow the introduction of annual national emission inventories, which will cover, inter alia, emissions of certain persistent organic pollutants.
the measures will make a significant contribution to the protection of the environment and human health.
a commitment to reducing the volume of such waste would have positive effects both for the economy and for the social security of people.
‒ mr demesmaeker has produced a comprehensive and very high-quality resolution on the review of the implementation of the eu biodiversity strategy.
biodiversity is unfortunately under severe pressure all over the world, including in europe.
human-induced species extinction, habitat change, pollution, overexploitation, invasive alien species and climate change are the main drivers of biodiversity loss and such ambitious targets need to be supported if we are to ensure the sustainable functioning of key terrestrial ecosystems in the future.
efforts to conserve biodiversity must be among the priorities of the ec.
a quarter of species are more seriously threatened, which not only directly affects the environment but also harms the economy.
i therefore voted in favour of the mid-term review report on the ec biodiversity strategy, as it further encourages member states to take action to halt the significant loss of biodiversity and it does so in several segments: under the common agricultural policy, the rural development funds, the constant monitoring of the implementation of the directives.
‒ the report refers to the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy issued by the commission in october 2015. the report welcomes this mid-term review and highlights its strategic importance for achieving the eu's biodiversity goals.
i agree that funding, increased public awareness and understanding of and support for biodiversity conservation are also essential in this context.
the report also calls for the eu to reduce its footprint on biodiversity worldwide, in line with the principle of policy coordination for development, by keeping it within the ecological limits of ecosystems.
i believe that the report reflects well the current state of biodiversity in the eu and contains the necessary warnings and suggestions, which is why i supported it in the plenary.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
i share the concern expressed in the report about the continued loss of biodiversity and the finding that the 2020 targets will not be achieved without significant additional and sustained efforts.
‒ i supported the mid-term review report on the eu biodiversity strategy, as it is very worrying that biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation are among the top 10 risks we will face in the future.
given that the strategy has not yet shown any impact, i agree that the eu needs to step up its efforts to prevent biodiversity loss.
‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which contains recommendations in order to meet the objectives included in the eu's biodiversity strategy 2010-2020. i voted in favour because the mid-term review of this strategy shows that the union is about to seriously fail in achieving its biodiversity targets if no improvements are made.
biodiversity losses have been increasing at an alarming pace, with more than three quarters of the important natural habitats being in an unfavourable state and a quarter of all species threatened with extinction.
i think it is important to step up efforts in the protection of our biodiversity by strengthening and better implementing the ambitious eu legislations instead of watering them down.
‒ the conservation of biodiversity has an important role to play in the sustainable development goals.
but current indicators point to a loss of biodiversity.
attention should be drawn to the socio-economic value of biodiversity and the consequences of its loss on health, well-being and prosperity.
because if we do that in the case of britain and foreign workers, tomorrow we will be forced to give a discount to bulgaria for example in enforcing environmental policy measures or germany in food safety standards.
the said instrument also contains an agreement between the eu and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary abandonment of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary abandonment of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part, as i consider these to be necessary instruments with which to regulate possible excesses of imports or exports which could have a negative impact on the economy of a member state or of countries trading with it.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of an anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary abandonment of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.
‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary abandonment of tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, as i consider that this is an instrument that can regulate and protect the member states that cooperate with georgia in the field of imports of agricultural products.
‒ motion for a resolution on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: i supported the authorisation of genetically modified soybean fg72 as i believe that our priority in the area of genetically modified food and feed is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and the environment.
i agree that we must ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and protection, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed.
‒ motion for a resolution on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: i support the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 × mon 89788, as i believe that our priority in the area of genetically modified food and feed is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and the environment.
in any event, we must ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and protection, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed.
i believe that there is a lack of research on genetically modified organisms and their health and environmental impacts, and that those that do exist are unreliable and inconsistent.
‒ motion for a resolution on the objection under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: i support the authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87705 × mon 89788 as our priority in the area of genetically modified food and feed is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and the environment.
‒ i voted against the resolution on the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean mon 87705 x mon 89788. i agree that we must ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and protection, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed.
‒ i did not support the envi committee's objection to the new emissions legislation package being brought back to baseline.
the commission proposal thus provides for a new measurement methodology which will allow us to expect real results and a reduction in emissions in the coming years.
i would expect the commission to give a more precise timetable for how we will reduce the limits over the years, and i support the idea that emissions will no longer be reduced on paper but in practice in the environment.
the environmental aspect is very important, but people and their jobs are also important, and we need to change this type of legislation by understanding and taking both aspects into account.
i voted against the objection on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6), which would delay the process of finding a solution to reduce emissions.
‒ air pollution causes more than 430,000 premature deaths in the eu each year.
the estimated value of the costs of the health effects of pollution is eur 940 billion per year.
emissions from diesel vehicles in urban areas in europe are one of the main sources of nitrogen oxides.
these are among the main air pollutants that cause lung cancer, asthma, and many other respiratory diseases, as well as environmental degradation, among others.
the motion for a resolution concerns a draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 as regards emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6).
in accordance with the draft measure, manufacturers should ensure that the emissions generated during type approval and throughout the life of the vehicle do not exceed the limit values in real-life emission testing.
‒ i voted against the resolution on the draft commission regulation amending the regulation on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles.
about 400,000 people die each year from air pollution.
voting in favour of the objection to the act adopted by the commission would significantly delay the implementation of the tests and it would therefore be irresponsible, both for the environment and for the automotive sector, to indefinitely delay the implementation of these tests.
‒ i rejected the motion for a resolution on the objection under rule 106 concerning emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6).
this is why there is a need for sustained efforts to reduce vehicle emissions, to set standards and to strengthen controls in this area.
i support progress and measuring emissions while driving, because only this will show real results.
‒ i voted in favour of this objection because i am against the plan to temporarily raise the nox emissions limits for diesel cars.
this is why i think that temporarily raising the emissions limits does not follow a clear, reasonable logic.
‒ i did not support the european parliament's resolution because i believe that the draft regulation is not yet complete and would not contribute to a substantial reduction in air pollution.
there is a lot of misinformation on the part of the opponents of the agreement about public services such as public health, safety and the environment, and i support that, as is also very clearly stated in the european parliament's recommendations to the commission.
it is in the eu's vital interest to protect consumer rights, data protection and the right to privacy, and to improve social and environmental standards, including at the level of international agreements.
these good neighbourly relations actually benefit everyone, of course serbia, the environment and of course the economic development itself.
the eu must help serbia to implement the necessary economic reforms and improve transport and environmental infrastructure with pre-accession aid of a sufficient amount.
the resolution welcomes the progress made by serbia in the area of the business environment and the reduction of the budget deficit in the labour market.
as such, i can mention the need to improve the parliamentary consultation process, the proper implementation of the legal and institutional framework for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the importance of the inclusion of national minorities, the constructive approach of the serbian government to relations with neighbouring countries and the building of sustainable and reliable energy systems.
it covers a range of areas, from the rule of law, democracy, human rights, respect for and protection of minorities, regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations to energy, the environment and transport.
it must be frankly admitted that kosovo has managed to make significant progress in certain areas, the most important of which is, of course, in relations with serbia and in resolving key interstate problems relating to energy, telecommunications, vehicle insurance and the serb minority in the north.
i agree with the call on the commission to draw up a clear definition of the types of permanent geographical, natural and demographic handicaps that may affect island regions and to launch a thorough study/analysis of the additional costs of insularity in terms of passenger and freight transport, energy supply and market access, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in particular, by developing tourism, promoting cultural heritage, developing craft and economic activities and the potential of alternative energy, they will achieve development, growth and become more competitive within the union.
‒ the european islands are facing many challenges due to the adverse conditions arising from climate conditions, the economic crisis, migration flows and distance from the european continental shores.
it is necessary to halt the displacement of people from island regions, to promote sustainable development on islands and to create new jobs.
cohesion policy is an important instrument of the european union and will play an important role in the 2014-2020 programming year as the main investment instrument covering all eu regions and as an opportunity to establish a process of sustainable growth.
this is the only way to help create opportunities, sustainable growth, new jobs, growth in innovation and entrepreneurship.
i support the emphasis in the report that the need to invest in social development is not only a means to ensure sustainable and inclusive economic development and convergence, but must also be a specific objective in itself.
the belgian glass industry, and indeed the european industry as a whole, is facing a number of problems due to competition from the far east, high production costs and strict environmental legislation.
the glass industry is a long-established economic sector, which is faced with higher production costs and stricter environmental standards in europe and overproduction in asia.
environmental, public health and food safety policies and regional policies are also important.
‒ achieving sustainable prosperity and the european union's global competitiveness are the objectives pursued, inter alia, by the annual growth survey 2016, which i supported.
parliament therefore proposes that structural reforms in this area should be pursued, but in a socially responsible manner, by promoting sustainable growth and by boosting investment.
the main emphasis is on further investing in people and social development, structural reforms in a socially responsible manner, promoting sustainable growth through investment recovery, better use of european funds to promote social, economic and territorial cohesion and better coordination of the european semester.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2016. i support the emphasis in the report that the need to invest in social development is not only a means to ensure sustainable and inclusive economic development and convergence, but must also be a specific objective in itself.
the report highlights the importance of investing in people, the need for structural reforms and sustainable growth, better use of european funds and social inclusion.
i voted in favour of this report because it is directed towards ensuring sustainable and fair welfare systems and reducing social inequalities.
‒ the proper functioning of the single market and the effective implementation of single market legislation are important in achieving structural and sustainable economic growth.
‒ tunisia's economy has been in serious trouble, its politically unstable environment and the influx of refugees from neighbouring war zones have taken a heavy toll on this otherwise successful african country, which has long been a model for a successful transition to democratisation in the region.
the aim of the agreement is to improve market access opportunities and the investment climate, and to support ongoing economic reforms in tunisia.
‒ according to the commission's latest autumn forecast, the economic recovery in the euro area is expected to strengthen, with real gdp expected to grow by 1.4% in 2015, 1.7% in 2016 and 1.8% in 2017. the report found that the ecb had resorted to unconventional monetary policy instruments in response to the complex environment characterised by the sovereign debt crisis, falling inflation, credit crunch and slow economic growth.
a strong political commitment to implementing sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms is essential to boost economic growth.
to further boost growth and contribute more effectively to reducing unemployment, we need a strong political commitment to implement sustainable and socially balanced structural reforms.
both fully respect the rule of law and are currently committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of human and social rights and workers' rights.
the agreements between the three economies should address many important sectors such as investment, trade, public procurement, energy, competition, anti-corruption, regulatory issues, technology research and, especially, the needs of smes.
‒ i support the opening of free trade negotiations with australia and new zealand, as i believe that the agreement would further strengthen trade and investment relations and cooperation in the field of international standards, without compromising consumer, environmental, social and labour rights.
‒ good animal health is a key contributor to the sustainability of our agriculture and fisheries.
in selecting products, member states will also take into account objective criteria of seasonality and health and environmental aspects.
the scheme is voluntary and works towards the promotion of a healthy diet, organic farming, local food and the reduction of food waste.
‒ i support the proposal as it aims above all to make the ten-t system more efficient, interconnected and sustainable by seeking to build a framework that increases the productivity of ports.
i support the modernisation of port services and operations, while at the same time creating an environment that is attractive for greater investment in ports.
the commission is working towards a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t network by developing a framework that improves the capacity of all ports and takes into account current traffic and logistics requirements.
the establishment of framework conditions and the modernisation of port service activities are key to creating a stimulating and promising environment for the development of ports, while also attracting new investment to ports.
it appeals for the creation of a supporting environment for women to take part in decision-making positions at all levels and underlines the importance of measures for the reconciliation of work and private and family life.
as i support efforts to create an environment in which women can run for decision-making positions at all levels, i supported the report.
‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a directive on the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels, as it is necessary to limit environmental pollution.
by strengthening environmental commitments and related standards, the report represents an important step in the right direction.
‒ the proposed directive aims to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain liquid fuels and thus reduce the harmful effects of these emissions on man and the environment.
it is important to reduce the sulphur content at eu level collectively, as environmental acidification is a transboundary phenomenon.
‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of sulphur in certain liquid fuels, as it is an important directive that addresses the issue of air pollution, which is one of the main environmental concerns facing european citizens.
the report demands for the reduction of emissions of sulphur dioxide resulting from the use of certain types of liquid fuels.
the final aim is to reduce the harmful effects of these emissions on the population and the environment.
the report strives towards a healthier and more ecological environment.
‒ emissions from the combustion of fuels for high-sulphur vessels pollute the air with sulphur dioxide and particulate matter, which are harmful to human health and the environment and contribute to the formation of acidic deposits.
since i believe that air quality must be maintained in a way that does not have major negative effects on human health and the environment and does not endanger them, i supported the proposal for a new directive, which provides a transparent and clear regulatory framework.
the legislative environment has changed over the years, in particular with the treaty of lisbon, and new negotiations were launched in 2015 to update the agreement and to incorporate existing best practices.
the agreement with philip morris international (pmi) in 2004, when it was first concluded, was an appropriate instrument in the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products, but the market and the regulatory environment have changed a lot since then and the agreement does not address the important features of today's illicit tobacco trade, in particular the large share of illicit whites in it today.
mr. weigl, thank you for all the energy and time you put into this excellent report.
we are working to create conditions for better access to medicines, to increase the number of innovations, especially in the field of tackling antibiotic resistance, and to protect the environment.
i also welcome the fact that the commission is seeking to increase the availability of medicines and simplify administrative procedures without sacrificing the principles of public health and environmental protection.
‒ i voted in favour of a legislative proposal which aims, among other things, to improve access to veterinary medicines, to increase incentives for innovation and research, to regulate the problem of growing antibiotic resistance and to take account of environmental protection.
this temporary instrument provides for duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in the acp states before 1 october 2016. i believe that this instrument supports and maintains smooth regional integration, promotes sustainable development and contributes to the overall efforts to eradicate poverty and improve living conditions in the acp states.
‒ the new protocol, which is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement between the union and greenland, strengthens and promotes cooperation and a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy.
as the protocol is based on the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources and ecosystems in the greenland area, which is highly dependent on fisheries as its second most important economic industry, it is in the interest of both parties to focus more on the sustainable development of fisheries policy, the conservation of ecosystems and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources.
the protocol itself also provides for a pilot fisheries programme for species not covered by the protocol and for scientific cooperation in the field of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, which is why i supported the agreement.
the new protocol is consistent with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement, as it promotes and enhances eu-greenland cooperation and provides for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the greenland fishing zone.
the renewed protocol takes into consideration ecological and economic aspects of the agreement, which is the reason i voted in favour of its conclusion.
that is why i supported it, as it strengthens cooperation between the eu and greenland and promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources.
‒ i supported the report on fisheries aspects of the international convention on marine biodiversity.
marine activities are developing rapidly and their numbers are increasing rapidly, increasing the strain on and the exploitation of marine biodiversity.
the latest report of the working group highlights the need for a comprehensive global system to better address this issue and recommends the development of an internationally legally binding instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity.
‒ in june 2015, a un resolution launched the development of a new legally binding international instrument for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
i believe that marine biodiversity should be protected and preserved, while taking into account the fisheries aspect, and i therefore supported the report.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the fisheries aspects of the international agreement on marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, the united nations convention on the law of the sea.
i support the report which stresses the importance of the conservation and sustainable use of oceans and seas and their resources, while calling on the eu and the international community to promote the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity by introducing, among other measures, modern and sustainable concepts of marine ecosystem management, the principle of ocean governance and the management of the exploitation of marine resources.
‒ i supported the report on the fisheries aspects of the international convention on marine biodiversity in outermost areas, the united nations convention on the law of the sea.
agenda 21 is a document that addresses the importance of protecting the world's waters and was released at the united nations conference on environment and development in rio de janeiro in june 1992. it demonstrated that the international community recognises the need for an international approach to control pollution and increase the sustainability threat to marine biodiversity.
in the years that followed, several declarations and documents on sustainable development were issued on this topic.
in january 2015, the working group presented its latest report, highlighting the need for a comprehensive global system to better address this issue and recommending the development of an international legally binding instrument, in accordance with unclos, for the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on fisheries aspects within the international agreement on marine biodiversity.
‒ the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity is directly linked to long-term development and therefore has social, economic and environmental implications for all countries and regions.
the seas and oceans have enormous potential for renewable energy and pharmaceuticals.
i therefore support efforts to conserve and manage the long-term development of marine biodiversity.
herding plays a key role in the conservation of endangered species and the protection of biodiversity.
i support the amendments proposed in the report, such as the proposal for a text, that the promotion of competitiveness must not lead to the extinction of breeds whose characteristics are adapted to a particular biophysical environment.
simplification of legislation (refit) may reduce the level of ambition in legislation on certain issues, namely human welfare and environmental protection, because there is no proper distinction between reducing administrative burdens and reducing regulatory burdens.
specific tools to ensure a competitive regulatory environment for our businesses, to support growth and job creation and to strengthen consumer confidence in european legislation need to be further explored.
it is also necessary to realise that improving the regulation of the single market does not mean abolishing all regulations, but the necessary regulatory environment that will not be too burdensome for businesses, but at the same time not too lax.
accessibility and openness, with a view to encouraging an individualised approach to vocational education, are just some of the things that would enable future generations of learners to acquire certain virtues through experience gained in a different working and learning environment, such as easier mobility, language skills, better response to critical situations, entrepreneurial logic, communication skills, experience of group work, exchange of good practices and strengthening cooperation with entrepreneurs and chambers of commerce.
it is important mainly because it provides a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
coastal fishing is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing of high importance to the eu countries, generating a high level of employment.
it equally calls for a gradual increase in the quotas allocated to non-industrial fisheries, in order to boost this socially and ecologically sustainable form of fishing.
‒ coastal fishing is a very important type of fishing in the eu countries, as it provides a high level of employment in coastal, island and outermost regions and is generally a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
we must respect our commitment to promote the environmental and social sustainability of fisheries through all our policies affecting fisheries in developing countries.
i support the report because it stresses the importance of coordination between fisheries, environmental and trade policy and development cooperation.
the report is also clear on the promotion of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries in bilateral and other agreements between the eu and partners.
it is clear that the eu will best achieve its objective of promoting sustainable fisheries by using its influence at international level to improve standards of fisheries governance and transparency, thereby encouraging competition for the best rather than the worst fisheries.
this is the best strategy to achieve the eu's objective of promoting sustainable fisheries.
the report emphasises the importance of ensuring consistency between fishery, environmental and trade policy and development cooperation.
it equally insists on the importance of promoting ecosystem protection and maintaining sufficient levels of fish stocks.
‒ i support the proposals in the report on common rules for the implementation of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, including fisheries agreements, as i believe they will contribute to sustainable fisheries that provide mutual benefits to the eu economy and to third countries, including their local populations.
in this way we will also achieve a better tax environment for all, better tax systems.
his areas of expertise include state aid rules, public service pricing, taxation, public debt and environmental audit.
i also supported amendments that contained more restrictions on the ways and places of use, greater controls on the sale of products and better monitoring of health and environmental impacts, and more education for users, and these were voted on.
the mandatory renewal assessment on glyphosate was carried out by germany (bundesinstitut für risikobewertung ‘bfr’), which, on the basis of around 900 scientific publications, came to the conclusion that the available data does not give evidence for harmful effects in humans, animals or the environment.
i have advocated greater control of the health effects of glyphosate, more sustainable use, a restriction to professional use only, greater control of the sale of glyphosate in the member states and more education for users.
‒ we voted overwhelmingly in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the eu in a changing global environment, in a more connected, conflicted and complex world.
‒ i voted for the report on the eu in a changing global environment a more connected, conflicted and complex world.
‒ report on the eu in a changing global environment i supported a more connected, conflicted and complex world, as many of the current and future challenges and threats facing the eu are complex and interconnected, emanating from state and non-state actors and originating both within and beyond our common borders.
i supported the report on the eu in a changing global environment a more connected, conflicted and complex world, because i agree with the need to protect european society and values, stabilise the union's wider neighbourhood and strengthen cooperation with citizens, civil society, industry and local and regional authorities in building a stronger framework for europe's security.
it is a region with great economic potential, energy richness, geostrategic and security features, with which good relations must be built.
in order to achieve long-term sustainable results, we have agreed to re-establish the post of eu special representative for the strengthening of external relations in the region.
‒ the eu strategy for a new partnership with central asia (eu strategy for central asia) was adopted in 2007 in response to the growing importance of the region for eu security, stability, governance and energy diversity.
the importance of this part of the world to the eu has increased in recent years, mainly because of the energy resources it contains.
however, the eu does not yet have sufficient visibility in central asia and should take steps to strengthen its efforts, focusing on those objectives and actions that address the following pressing challenges: human rights and the rule of law, water and energy, and regional security.
security, development and environmental protection require close cooperation between the eu and each country, and cooperation between countries themselves.
‒ report on the eu in a changing global environment i supported a more connected, conflict-ridden and complex world, as respect for democracy, the rule of law and human rights is a basic condition for closer cooperation between the eu and the five central asian countries in areas of mutual interest, in the literal sense of the word 'partnership', as stated in the partnership and cooperation agreements.
poland must not be marginalised and excluded from important debates on migration, terrorism, the internal market, energy policy and foreign policy issues.
when we talk about energy poverty, we must be aware that it is closely linked to general poverty.
this means that we need to recommit to the objectives we have already set and try to reduce the number of households affected by energy poverty.
we need to encourage and monitor the targeted use of the european structural and investment funds in the member states and ensure that stronger links are established between the market and sustainable energy investments.
i also think we should increase investment in renewable energy research.
i believe that it would provide for more ambitious action to tackle energy poverty, which disproportionately affects single women, single-parent households and female-headed households.
‒ i have endorsed the report on the european parliament's statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017. as proposed by the secretary-general in his report, the 2017 budget will continue and strengthen the institution's policy of saving in all areas where possible without compromising the quality of the working environment of members and staff.
‒ the 2017 budget will continue and strengthen the institution's policy of saving in all areas where possible, without compromising the quality of the working environment of members and staff.
turkey is an important strategic partner of the eu and there is a need to promote a peaceful and fair political dialogue on key issues of common interest such as migration, the fight against terrorism, energy, the economy and trade.
it is positive that the environmental aspect is also included in the text.
the construction of hydroelectric power plants in the protected area of the vjosa river is in conflict with european environmental standards and laws.
the report focuses on the impact of energy policy and consumer prices on poverty, particularly among disadvantaged groups.
10% of eu citizens were in arrears on utility bills in 2015 and 12% of eu citizens were unable to adequately heat their homes in 2014. the europe 2020 poverty reduction targets will be difficult to achieve without changes in energy and social policies.
the report makes a number of recommendations and also calls on the commission and the member states to adopt an integrated approach to combating poverty and social exclusion, linking economic, employment, energy transfer and social policies.
they are also called upon to sign a moratorium on winter heating and to provide the necessary upfront investments to reduce the energy costs of poor households.
it is worrying that more than 50 million people across europe are now facing energy shortages, together with growing inequalities and dependence on energy consumption, which is why i supported the report.
the own-initiative report aims to build a bridge between social and energy policy in the european debate and to highlight that the eu is moving away from its 2020 poverty reduction target, while at the same time there are many untapped opportunities in the eu to reduce the higher costs of poor households by targeting existing renewable energy and energy efficiency projects at energy-scarce households.
in order to achieve the eu's 2020 poverty reduction target and the energy efficiency, emissions and renewable energy targets, action by a number of actors is needed, using different instruments but in the same direction.
poverty and social exclusion need to be tackled in an integrated way, through the cooperation of economic, employment, energy transfer and social policies, taking into account already established good practices.
by providing the necessary innovation in low-carbon solutions that use resources economically and sustainably, it will play an important role in the sustainable growth of the green economy in developing countries.
‒ the private sector accounts for 84% of gdp in developing countries and has the capacity to provide a sustainable basis for domestic resource mobilisation, which can lead to less dependence on other aid.
the report concludes that private sector investment in developing countries, if properly managed, can contribute to the achievement of the united nations sustainable development goals.
the focus is refocused on the alignment and alignment of private sector strategy with the sustainable development goals and on the achievement of the goals of developing countries' own development strategy.
this will help to accelerate the achievement of the un sustainable development goals.
the high-level group advising the united nations secretary-general ban ki-moon on the post-2015 development agenda consulted the ceos of 250 companies from 30 countries and concluded that corporate strategies need to integrate sustainability to seize market opportunities for sustainable growth.
i'm talking about environmental issues, social issues, and of course, those important things that then force people to leave their homes because of all those issues, and then they also represent, on the other hand, a social burden.
the main principle for assessing the long-term results of these projects must be not only economic but also social, environmental and human rights results.
and opportunities for the environment and therefore for future generations with the possibility of greater use of more environmentally friendly transport.
‒ parliament is a consistent supporter of greater integration of the european railway area, which it considers to be a sustainable means of transport that contributes to job creation and growth.
the sector still faces barriers to competition, discrimination and a lack of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment.
as the court of auditors has noted, the conditions of navigation and certain other environmental, agricultural and social sectors have not improved significantly since 2011 and the responsibility for improving them lies with the commission and the member states.
‒ i did not support the discharge reports on the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. the business environment in african, caribbean and pacific countries can be highly risky due to political instability, security concerns and a lax institutional and administrative environment.
‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for the financial year 2014. i welcome the fact that acer has improved the system of key performance indicators, introducing a distinction between performance indicators and key performance indicators.
the report by rapporteur derek vaughan gives good reasons for granting discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors found that the level of implementation of the budget in 2014 was in line with the agency's planned objective.
‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors, in its report on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, stated that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014, as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
‒ i voted in favour of granting the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the agency's final accounts for the financial year 2014 that it had received reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
the agency is working to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of its activities, intends to obtain a certificate for activities related to hazardous chemicals and biocidal products, and will also continue to integrate the environmental management system into the quality management system.
‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. the european parliament found that the figures in the final accounts of the european environment agency were as annexed to the court of auditors' report.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014. both the budget implementation rate and the payment execution rate for 2014 are at a high level, which i welcome.
‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014, together with the office's replies, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors' report on the final accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014 states that the final accounts of the eea for the financial year 2014 are in accordance with the principles of legality, regularity and sound financial management.
the agency shall contribute to maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships in europe and assist the member states and the commission in the implementation of international and union law.
the agency has adopted an internal policy to improve the cost-effectiveness and environmental friendliness of its premises.
they have eliminated all paper-based workflows, including files and documents on financial transactions and personnel matters, and replaced them with electronic documents, thus striving to achieve a paperless office environment.
the foundation operates in a dynamic environment where it must be highly flexible in constantly updating and changing its activities in order to achieve the expected results in offering support to partner countries.
‒ i voted in favour of the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. artemis was set up for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in various fields of application, in order to improve european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the creation of new markets and societal applications.
‒ i have supported the proposal for a european parliament decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014, has concluded that the final accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present a true and fair view of the financial position of the joint undertaking in all material respects.
‒ i have supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking, having regard to the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, together with the replies of the office, and to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, pursuant to article 287 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
‒ i supported the discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, as it gives the reasons and recommendations in favour of granting discharge.
the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014 ('the court's report'), states that the final annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the year 2014 present fairly, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
the report also encourages the eib to continue investing in education, skills development and jobs for young people, and details improvements in environmental sustainability and climate action, the promotion of economic and social cohesion and convergence, the management of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), and many others.
another important aspect of the report is the environment and sustainable production.
the 13 new member states received only 1% of the funding for renewable energy capacity development.
the report calls for the promotion of new investments in environmentally friendly and sustainable production and for a gradual increase in the share of investments in the new member states.
i think that the commission and those who will be leading the energy union project should be trusted to be able to strike a balance between ratios, between economic reasons, between environmental reasons on the one hand and geostrategic reasons on the other.
but i think it is too tempting to talk about europe's energy perspective only under the influence of geostrategy.
so on the one hand, for the european shipping fleet, the fishing fleet, for sustainable fishing in this part of the seas, the part that also talks about development aid to these countries is particularly important, because we know that we are talking about african countries that are affected by various problems, from disease to other deficiencies.
i therefore call on the commission to ensure that parliament takes account of all the obstacles and problems we have mentioned, particularly in the areas of food safety, the environment and so on.
and this is the direction we must take if we are to achieve sustainable jobs, if we are to reduce the number of redundant jobs which, unfortunately, are also increasing throughout europe and are putting young people at a disadvantage, especially in planning their future and, of course, in living conditions.
‒ i also supported the resolution on the conclusion of the partnership and sustainable fisheries agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia, the first of its kind between signatories.
the conclusion of the agreement is therefore in the interest of both signatories, with a partnership based on sustainable fishing and the wise exploitation of fisheries resources.
this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be signed by the eu and the republic of liberia.
the agreement is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities and brings great mutual benefits to both parties.
it facilitates, inter alia, a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources and helps to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
the report reflects my views on sustainable fisheries, which is why i supported it.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and of the implementation protocol thereto.
‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and its implementation protocol.
‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia and the implementation protocol thereto.
i agree with the rapporteur that the agreement enhances cooperation between the union and liberia and promotes a partnership framework within which a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the liberian fishing zone can be developed.
i am confident that the conclusion of the agreement will help to achieve this, as it represents a major step forward both in the sustainable development of fisheries and in the financial subsidies to the country.
at the same time, sectoral support was increased to improve european support for the launch of the new sectoral strategy for the sustainable development of fishing activities in the country.
in return, the eu is offering more support to mauritania's local fisheries, in order to export the model of environmental, economic and social sustainability that it promotes in its fisheries policy.
‒ having regard to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a8-0065/2016), i voted in favour of the conclusion of a cooperation agreement with korea on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use.
community-led local development and integrated territorial investment are innovative cohesion policy instruments, which will be implemented in this form for the first time by some member states, and which can make a significant contribution to achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion, the creation of quality local jobs, sustainable development and the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives.
i believe that the new territorial development tools can make a significant contribution to the creation of quality local jobs, sustainable development and the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
the report takes the view that cohesion policy should treat mountain regions as special areas offering specific economic activities, employment opportunities, ecological vulnerability and particular challenges for forestry and agriculture.
in relation to tourism development and environmental protection activities, the report stresses the importance of ensuring diversified agricultural production and structuring the food chain in mountain areas, thereby giving farmers greater bargaining power.
as the request to include the link between the water sector and public-private partnership in the report was rejected, and the gender dimension and the environmental dimension, including climate challenges, were reinforced, i also supported the report.
the whole eu depends on mountain ecosystem services.
mountain regions offer many opportunities to achieve the eu's employment, cohesion and environmental objectives through the sustainable use of their natural resources.
mountain regions, which represent a significant proportion of the eu's territory (approximately 30%), play an important role in the economic, social and sustainable development of the member states and provide a range of ecosystem services.
i would ask you, mrs mogherini, to show the same sensitivity, the same will and the same energy when it comes to solving problems, political problems.
the term 'commodity trader' covers a wide range of actors in the energy and primary products markets.
commodity traders include a wide range of players in the energy and primary products markets.
the whole of the eu depends on mountain ecosystem services.
mountain regions offer many opportunities to achieve the eu's employment, cohesion and environmental objectives through the sustainable use of their natural resources.
the whole of the eu depends on mountain ecosystem services.
mountain regions offer many opportunities to achieve the eu's employment, cohesion and environmental objectives through the sustainable use of their natural resources.
it is therefore necessary to implement responsibly, prudently and effectively measures to promote appropriate structural reforms, as well as investment-friendly policies and the fight against fraud, in line with the objectives of territorial cohesion, sustainable growth and employment.
if we want a functioning and secure environment at our borders and in our countries, if we want to protect the fundamental rights of everyone, we need better and more comprehensive reform.
the creation of schengen in the 1980s was one of the greatest experiments in the union's history, but it can only succeed if there is a suitable climate in the area, in particular trust and security.
the european people's party has for many years been advocating a single european food label that would ensure respect for environmental, social and health standards.
the commission must take due account of the concerns expressed by our members about the industrial sector in the eu and ensure the protection of european jobs, the environment, standards and sustainable economic growth.
the european commission must listen to the concerns of eu industry and trade unions about the potential consequences for the environment, jobs and economic growth of china's market economy status.
china's overproduction already has major social, economic and environmental consequences in the eu.
the 2030 agenda for sustainable development establishes a global framework for eradicating poverty and achieving sustainable development by 2030, and builds on the millennium development goals adopted in 2000. it is the first global agreement to set out a universal and comprehensive plan of action and includes an ambitious set of 17 overarching sustainable development goals.
the agenda sets out clearly the guidelines for sustainable development based on peace and justice.
the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals commit the international community to eradicating poverty and redefine and update our development strategies for the next 15 years.
i support the call for the foreign affairs council to adopt a common position of the european union, in line with parliament's position, on the next steps and the current state of play of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals.
‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the 2030 agenda, which sets out a global framework for eradicating poverty and achieving sustainable development by 2030, and builds on the millennium development goals adopted in 2000. it is the first global agreement to set out a universal and comprehensive plan of action, based on a global partnership involving action by governments and stakeholders at all levels.
i believe that the new eu sustainable development strategy and its related implementing measures should be widely consulted by all stakeholders, including national parliaments, local authorities and civil society, on the basis of an inclusive process.
preventive action is of course key to more health and sustainable health systems, and in these circumstances, what is needed above all is an active commission.
energy poverty has become an increasing threat to our citizens in recent years.
to combat it, we must provide access to affordable and safe energy.
it is important to support the development of indigenous energy sources, which will increase the competitiveness of the eu economy.
i believe that member states should do more to find a solution to energy independence.
they should invest more in self-generated energy and in the development of alternative, renewable energy technologies.
in addition, we must not forget the renewal of existing energy infrastructure, which will also affect the development of new jobs.
we need to complete the single market, which will be the pillar of eu integration and the engine of sustainable growth and jobs.
this will increase the number of sustainable jobs and strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises.
the report also takes into account the greens' views on the energy consumption of bitcoin and also our views on the definition of a virtual currency.
‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the new energy customer agreement, the so-called third energy package.
its purpose is to ensure a truly competitive, transparent and customer-friendly retail energy market.
by removing the barriers currently faced by innovative business models in the energy sector, we can also improve the price-to-service ratio and contribute to the prevention of energy poverty.
‒ the report on the new energy customer agreement focuses exclusively on household energy customers in the context of the transformation of the energy system and emphasises that industrial customers should be treated separately.
with the current transformation of the energy system, we are moving away from a system based on traditional centralized production towards a system that is more decentralized and flexible.
the final objective of the implementation of the report is thus an economy based entirely on renewable energy sources, which can only be achieved by reducing our energy consumption, by following the principle of putting energy efficiency first, and by prioritising energy savings and demand-related measures, thus achieving climate objectives in line with the paris agreement objective, energy security, competitiveness and, in particular, reducing costs for consumers.
the result of the energy system transformation should be, in principle, a more efficient energy system that benefits society as a whole, increases the involvement of citizens and local and regional actors and communities and enables them to own or participate in the production, distribution and storage of renewable energy, while protecting the most vulnerable and ensuring that they benefit from energy efficiency and renewable energy measures.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new energy consumer agreement.
this concerns household energy customers in the context of the transformation of the energy system, as industrial customers need to be treated separately.
i agree with the report that open, transparent and well-regulated competitive markets are important for maintaining low prices, fostering innovation, improving customer services and removing barriers to innovative business models that can offer citizens a good price-to-service ratio and contribute to preventing energy poverty.
‒ i supported the new energy customer agreement, as the current transformation of the energy system is moving away from a system based on traditional centralised production to one that is more decentralised and flexible and based mainly on renewable energy.
the ultimate goal of the economy should be based entirely on renewable energy sources, which can only be achieved by reducing our energy consumption.
the energy union should provide stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable high-quality energy-efficient products, services and housing; enable citizens to produce, consume, store or trade their own renewable energy, individually or collectively; take energy-saving measures; actively participate in the energy market because they have a choice as consumers; contribute to the eradication of energy poverty; protect consumers from unfair, non-competitive and unfair behaviour by market actors and enable them to fully exercise their rights; and create the right conditions to ensure a well-functioning and competitive internal energy market that provides consumers with choice and transparent and clear access to information.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on delivering a new deal for energy consumers.
our energy market is going through a fundamental transition and we have to ensure that consumers are at the heart of these changes.
therefore, a new deal for energy consumers focused on empowering consumers and helping them to participate more actively in the market is urgently needed.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the new energy customer agreement, which advocates, among other things, that consumers should have more rights in the single european energy market.
currently, some 50 million people in europe live in energy poverty.
i agree that the elimination of energy poverty requires the establishment of a well-functioning competitive market and the introduction of new business models that offer consumers a good price-service ratio.
the report is divided into three parts and addresses poverty and work-life balance, poverty and employment, as well as general recommendations, including a call for member states to reduce energy poverty, a call for social rights for victims of violence against women and a highlighted role of education in combating gender stereotypes.
‒ the single market has been and remains a pillar of european union integration and a driver of sustainable growth and jobs, boosting trade within the european union while ensuring a highly competitive social market economy.
we need to complete the single market, which will be the pillar of eu integration and the engine of sustainable growth and jobs.
this will increase the number of sustainable jobs and strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises.
under the leadership of the current president of the commission, important and ambitious measures have been taken, including the european energy union.
the report emphasises that the strategy has good potential to help ensure economic prosperity, increase the creation of sustainable jobs and growth, improve the well—being of europeans by practical measures, make the european union attractive for investments and develop the global competitiveness of european businesses.
the single market strategy should provide a new impetus for smes and start-ups, as well as increasing the number of sustainable jobs.
it is important to build sustainable development through globally coordinated development policies.
the resolution on policy coordination for development for 2015 analyses seven priority areas, namely the areas of migration, trade and finance, food security, health, climate change, gender and security.
policy coherence for development is a key element for the implementation and achievement of the new sustainable development agenda.
i certainly support research that will lead to new innovations in plant protection, research that will ensure food safety, and at the same time research that will also answer the big question of climate change that we are facing.
but today, we have a report on the table that proves just the opposite, a step forward in creating an environment that will force businesses to pay their taxes more fairly and honestly.
this allows more energy to be directed into the development and production process itself.
of course, in addition to promoting a transparent and efficient economic environment, we must not forget safety and health.
international regulatory cooperation is a possibility for a transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while at the same time establishing and ensuring the highest level of safety and health protection.
in order to maintain and strengthen a competitive and diversified industrial base in europe, it is necessary to actively engage in international regulatory cooperation, which offers the potential for a stimulating, transparent, efficient and competitive economic environment, while establishing and ensuring the highest level of safety and health.
the proposed report analyses five priority areas (trade and finance, food security, climate change, migration and security) and makes concrete recommendations for them.
‒ the european commission's fifth biennial report on policy coherence for development was published in august 2015, just before the adoption of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development at the un in new york in september.
the sustainable development goals will require a more holistic approach to policy-making, with greater emphasis on coherence.
it will also have a major impact on the implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
it is important to build sustainable development through globally coordinated development policies.
the resolution on policy coordination for development for 2015 analyses seven priority areas, namely the area of migration, trade and finance, food security, health, climate change, gender and security.
policy coherence for development is a key element for the implementation and achievement of the new sustainable development agenda.
‒ i supported the eu's 2015 report on policy coherence for development, as it highlights the importance of policy coherence for sustainable development.
the adoption of the sustainable development goals in 2015 marks a turning point in the development of sustainable development policies, which will require a more holistic approach to policy-making.
i believe that that pcd (policy coherence for development) is a key element for delivering and achieving the new sustainable development agenda.
i believe that policy coherence for development is a key element for the implementation and achievement of the new sustainable development agenda.
the report highlights some current strategic priorities, including migration and security, where action on sustainable development and poverty eradication needs to be strengthened.
national parliaments also play a key role in the implementation of policy coherence for sustainable development, ensuring regular monitoring of political commitments, monitoring and full involvement of civil society organisations, as well as monitoring of impact assessment reports prepared by governments.
there is a risk that the social and environmental risks associated with it will hit the poorest communities hardest.
instead of supporting eu nafsn, donors and also national governments should invest in a sustainable model of agriculture that supports small-scale farming and women's farming and exploits the potential of domestic and regional markets.
the report also calls for increased investment in agro-ecological practices while rejecting genetically modified crops in africa.
i support the new alliance for food security in africa, which, in addition to promoting small-scale farming, limits the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides, which have health and environmental consequences for local communities, wherever possible.
the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the paris agreement on climate change of december 2015 underline the need to develop a model of agriculture that builds resilience and creates sustainable food systems.
food security must be based on healthy and living soils and productive agricultural ecosystems that are resilient to climate change.
the report thus highlights the importance of greater investment in conflict prevention in view of political and religious radicalisation, electoral violence, climate change and population displacement.
they face an unstable and dangerous environment in third countries.
peace operations are primarily intended to help create an environment for a more stable and secure life in third countries.
peace is key to the development of the new 2030 agenda for sustainable development, and the security situation in africa has changed dramatically in recent decades with the rise of terrorist and insurgent groups in somalia, nigeria and the sahel region.
i strongly believe that investing more in conflict prevention is crucial, taking account of factors such as political and religious radicalisation, election-related violence, population displacements and climate change.
this situation is not sustainable in the long term and it is therefore essential to start developing a legislative framework at eu level as soon as possible, which will clearly define the rules of the game.
fair-trading should in turn help to prevent overproduction and food waste.
‒ i supported the proposed report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture.
projections show that food demand is expected to increase by as much as 70% by 2050. enhancing technological innovation in agriculture is therefore crucial both to meet the demand for healthy food and to manage the environmental risks that can result from unsustainable agricultural practices.
i also support research into new methods of plant protection, research to ensure food safety and research to provide answers to the questions posed by climate change.
food demand is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. the decline in available land, environmental damage and degradation, water scarcity, increased energy demand and the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting considerable pressure on the natural environment.
as a result, the report points out, it is becoming increasingly difficult for farmers to produce food in a sustainable way.
‒ i voted in favour of a report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu.
as in other sectors, innovation in the agricultural sector can contribute to achieving sustainable agriculture in the european union.
in addition, a variety of innovative approaches can help to protect the environment, in addition to increasing farmers' incomes and using resources more efficiently.
‒ i have supported technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu.
one of the biggest challenges today is how to meet the demand for healthy food, which is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. technological innovation is a key part of the solution, as agricultural technologies have the potential to increase productivity and sustainability of agriculture.
the european union should become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability.
it is also important to create a regulatory environment that is conducive to innovation, while ensuring that eu rules do not hamper it.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu.
the report equally underlines that ecosystem services, such as nutrient cycling, are of central importance to agriculture, and that some functions, such as carbon sequestration, go beyond food production.
i voted in favour because i am convinced that innovation has the potential to contribute to achieving sustainable agriculture in the eu.
‒ i voted in favour of a report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu.
the shrinking of available land, loss of the environment, water scarcity, increased demand for energy, the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting a heavy burden on the agricultural sector.
to ensure a sustainable agricultural sector in the eu, it is essential to develop a wide range of innovative technologies in all types of farming.
there is thus a need to increase and improve agricultural production with fewer resources, in particular due to pressure on natural resources and the related impacts on biodiversity, environmental vulnerability, climate change and land scarcity.
the report rightly concludes that economic development and sustainable production are not mutually exclusive and can be achieved through innovation, research and development, new management and improved agronomy.
the ecological footprint of agricultural production should be reduced in order to alleviate the pressure on the environment.
i am strongly committed to unleashing agriculture’s innovative potential in order to produce more quality products, ensure food supplies and fight climate change more effectively.
the report highlights the importance of innovation for sustainable agricultural production and stresses the importance of introducing advanced production techniques by small and medium-sized family farms, which are an integral part of european agriculture.
i agree that economic development and sustainable production are not mutually exclusive and that innovation, research and development of production techniques should be encouraged.
only investments in the real economy and in the social environment can have the effect of deterring many from the risky path to europe and beyond.
the 2010 convention aimed to provide for adequate, prompt and effective compensation for damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the carriage of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
i open the procedure for the adoption of an opinion in the form of a letter in which we stress that member states accede to the protocol and accept the rules of the convention as binding, since the convention covers not only cases of environmental damage but also cases of non-environmental damage.
it is in the interest of the european union to have a uniform system of liability for environmental damage.
the objective of the 2010 hns convention is to ensure, through the dedicated hns international compensation fund, the accountability and payment of adequate, prompt and effective compensation for damage to persons, property and the environment resulting from the carriage of dangerous and harmful substances by sea.
it is in the interest of the european union to have a uniform system of liability for environmental damage.
the pca strengthens cooperation across a wide range of policy fields, including migration, taxation, environment, energy, science and technology, maritime and air transport, tourism, culture, money laundering and terrorist financing, illicit drugs, organised crime and corruption and broadens the scope for mutual engagement in the economic and trade domain.
‒ i am in favour of concluding this agreement for the eu to continue providing financial support and capacity-building assistance to the philippines for poverty alleviation, social inclusion, respect for human rights and the rule of law, the promotion of peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, and assisting the country in disaster preparedness, relief and recovery and the implementation of effective policies to tackle climate change.
at the same time, the report also calls on the european union to help the country prepare for disasters, provide aid and reconstruction, and implement effective policies to combat climate change.
this assistance programme will back up the efforts made by tunisia to improve its budgetary position and balance of payments and bring about a climate more conducive to investment.
space technology can help us to deal with current global challenges such as climate change and natural disasters.
we need to respond to the deterioration of democracy and human rights and to the socio-economic situation in venezuela, where a climate of political and social instability is increasing.
we need an immediate response to the deterioration of democracy and human rights and the socio-economic situation in venezuela, where a climate of political and social instability is increasing.
‒ i supported the objection because i consider that the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of health and environmental protection laid down in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore goes beyond the implementing powers laid down in this directive.
however, the use of this medicinal product for purposes other than public health may have adverse effects on biodiversity and contribute to the contamination of drinking water.
i cannot agree with the contention in the resolution that the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in the directive and therefore exceeds the implementing powers laid down in that directive.
a european training and education strategy would also be welcome, bringing together railway supply industry companies, research institutions and social partners to jointly explore the skills needed for a sustainable and innovative railway supply industry.
the rail supply industry is essential for europe's competitiveness, climate change mitigation and in responding to other global phenomena such as urbanisation and demographic change.
i therefore support the call on the commission to draw up a strategy for eu industrial policy aimed at re-industrialising europe, based on, inter alia, sustainability, energy efficiency and efficient use of resources.
the report highlights the need to improve employability of all workers by adapted training and expects that the training offered in the coordinated package will meet both needs of the workers and the business environment in the region and in the neighbouring regions.
in addition, the report calls on member states to prepare, together with the social partners, strategies to anticipate the projected labour market changes and to protect union jobs and skills, especially when negotiating trade agreements in order to ensure fair competition rules and common measures against economic, social and environmental dumping.
the report equally highlights the need of improving employability of all workers by adapted training and expects that the training offered in the coordinated package will meet both needs of the workers and the business environment in the region and in the neighbouring regions.
the proposal for a regulation lays down general rules for the application of the recovery plan, taking into account the specific characteristics of the different types of fishing gear and paying particular attention to traditional, more sustainable and artisanal gear.
although the report explicitly mentions the good environmental status of the marine strategy framework directive and also allows for the restriction of fishing gear in order to conserve non-commercial fish species, which i support, i think the report is rather poor.
multiannual plans are a fundamental tool for the sustainable management or recovery of fish stocks.
the multiannual management plan is an instrument to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks and marine ecosystems.
i voted in favour because i believe that the plan provides for a balanced, sustainable exploitation of those stocks and the stability of fishing opportunities – and thereby of the livelihoods of fishers.
the proposal for a regulation contributes to the objectives of the common sustainable fisheries policy as set out in article 2 of regulation (eu) no 1380/2013, in particular by applying the precautionary approach to fisheries management.
its purpose is to ensure that, when exploiting living marine biological resources, populations of harvested species are restored and maintained above levels that allow maximum sustainable yield.
‒ the development of renewable energy requires a new approach that will make it a fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model.
the fight against climate change is our fundamental responsibility and a historic duty that we must fulfil.
we also need to reduce our dependence on energy sources from other parts of the world if we are to consolidate our production model and create quality jobs and lead the development of strategic technologies for the energy transition.
the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority that cannot be addressed from a market perspective alone.
for this reason, we must understand that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to prevent serious social and environmental externalities.
we must prevent energy oligopolies from determining the future of europe's energy.
it is important that we try to achieve the goal of having an economy based on 100% renewable energy.
the report calls for more ambitious targets for 2030 and for countries that are lagging behind in renewable energy to be highlighted.
at the initiative of the greens, the report also reinforces the future of energy management and clearly defines the reporting requirements of countries in this area.
‒ i voted in favour of the progress report on renewable energy.
the european union's 2020 renewable energy targets are ambitious and the european union as a whole is well on track to meet them, but there are still significant reservations in some member states.
the commission should therefore ensure that the 2020 renewable energy directive is fully implemented, while providing a strong legal framework beyond 2020 with binding renewable energy targets that are aligned with the most effective way to achieve the union's long-term climate objectives.
‒ i supported the progress report on renewable energy.
the european union is well on track to reach its 20% green energy share target.
the report demonstrates that europe is good at green energy and green energy is good for europe.
renewable energy sources are one of the most effective ways of reducing dependence on fossil fuels and contribute to the creation of a low-carbon economy.
in addition, renewable energy sources are cost-effective, increase market competitiveness and promote diversity.
however, there is a need to improve national policies and the commission needs to strengthen its role in monitoring and supporting progress in the field of renewable energy.
‒ i voted in favour of the renewable energy progress report.
the development of renewable energies calls for a new approach that entails making them the main pillar of the european union’s energy model.
the report highlights the significance of an eu legislative proposal on energy market rules, as a more integrated market is key to the development of renewables and to reducing energy costs for families and industry.
in addition, the report notes that increased regional cooperation on renewables is key to ensuring the further development of renewable energy sources.
i voted in favour because i believe that we have a fundamental responsibility to combat climate change – a historic duty that we must fulfil.
‒ i voted in favour of the progress report on renewable energy.
in accordance with article 194 tfeu, european energy policy is to ensure the functioning of the energy market and the security of energy supply, and to promote energy efficiency, energy saving and the development of renewable energy sources, as well as the interconnection of energy networks.
i therefore agree with the conclusions of the report that future legislation and measures must be based on renewable energy, which will allow the full market representation of technologies for this energy.
‒ in the european union, greenhouse gas emissions fell by 23% between 1990 and 2014. at the same time, eu gdp increased by 46%.
businesses and citizens are increasingly generating growth, jobs and tax revenues, while at the same time reducing their climate impact, which is good news.
the european union is on track to meet its 2020 targets, largely thanks to a successful emissions trading system.
this not only encourages emission reductions but also investment in energy-efficient technologies.
the european union's success in reducing greenhouse gases is commendable, but that does not mean that more could not be done to improve energy efficiency.
the report under discussion is a good one, as it calls on the european commission to set a binding target of reducing greenhouse gases by 40% by 2030, thus following the targets agreed in paris at cop 21. that is why i voted for the report.
‒ i voted against the report on the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive.
but i voted against the report because, within the amendment vote, there were a few amendments voted on which call on the commission to set a binding 40% energy efficiency target for 2030 which will reflect the potential for cost-effective energy efficiency, which i cannot agree with.
it would be much better to set a target of at least 30% of energy efficiency improvements by 2030 to achieve a higher target of 40% reflecting the full economic potential.
‒ energy policy is of great importance to the european union.
this demonstrates that energy efficiency is in the interest of businesses and households.
the report contains a number of positive points such as the importance of energy efficiency in achieving our climate goals, the flexibility in article 7, the need for better monitoring and clarification of the definition of smes, and the state aid rules.
the directive places too much emphasis on energy saving rather than energy efficiency.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation report on the energy efficiency directive.
the report emphasises that improving energy efficiency is crucial to achieving our climate targets.
the report stresses that this is essential to start the transition towards a more sustainable energy system based on renewables and away from fossil fuels as soon as possible.
the report recalls that the transition towards a more sustainable energy is also vital to job creation and sustainable growth.
i voted in favour of the report because i strongly believe that the implementation of the energy efficiency directive is a major progress towards achieving the eu’s climate and energy targets.
‒ improving energy efficiency and energy savings are important for protecting the environment and climate, enhancing economic competitiveness, creating new jobs and ensuring energy security.
this can be achieved by promoting energy efficiency through tax reductions and additional funding.
the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive, as advocated by the left (with a binding target of 40% savings by 2030 for individual member states), is unrealistic and does not contribute to more efficient use of energy.
the result of such a binding target could be a large increase in energy prices and the establishment of building quotas that neither local authorities nor residents can afford.
i very much support the progress being made in the area of energy efficiency.
energy efficiency is the best answer to the key challenges ahead.
on the one hand, it is reducing climate change, and on the other, it is reducing europe's energy dependence.
moreover, the positive climate, or support for the union, has increased in most countries, which is bad news for the protagonists of brexit.
together, such engines produce as much as 15% of nitrogen oxides emissions and 5% of pm emissions, and therefore regulation and setting of limit values for such engines is necessary.
the report strikes a balance between health and environmental issues on the one hand and the competitiveness of the eu manufacturing industry, the jobs and the knowledge it brings, on the other.
the health and safety of eu citizens, especially those who work with machinery on a daily basis and are particularly exposed to pollutant emissions, are given the highest priority.
i agree with the rapporteur, who is positive that the issue is being addressed in the framework of the regulation, thereby providing the industry with a more stable regulatory environment, which is essential for long-term development and production planning.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the resolution lays down the basic provisions on gaseous and solid pollutant emissions and type-approval for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery.
in this way, harmonised rules for eu type-approval of engines for non-road mobile machinery will ensure the functioning of the internal market in this field and follow the commitments to reduce emissions and ensure air quality, thereby limiting adverse health effects.
the legislation covers a wide range of engines, which are major contributors to air pollution and are responsible for around 15% of nitrogen oxides and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union.
although the report is less ambitious than the original proposal on limiting nitrous oxide for inland waterways, it still represents a major step forward in limiting pollution from engine categories.
non-road mobile machinery is one of the factors contributing to harmful emissions in the form of gases or particulates.
the proposal aims to establish new requirements to reduce emissions of harmful substances from engines incorporated in non-road mobile machinery.
the proposal covers a wide range of different types of internal combustion engines, which are responsible for around 15% of nitrogen oxide and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the eu, and introduces new emission limit values.
the regulation maintains a balanced approach between protecting the environment and safeguarding the competitiveness of eu industry.
the commission is also invited to take the initiative in reforming the wto's trade policy review mechanisms to include social, environmental and human rights aspects.
‒ i voted in favour of a resolution which stresses the importance of trade and foreign investment as important tools for achieving economic growth and good governance and calls on the ec to play an active role in achieving the sustainable development goals.
the ec must make a positive contribution in these areas, thereby supporting social and environmental progress.
‒ the report reflects the european commission's progress since 2010, when the european parliament adopted recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
the report reveals that the european commission has failed to carry out a radical reform of its policy to make trade a tool for achieving eu objectives and protecting the environment and human rights.
the report supports the human rights conditionality of trade agreements and supports the idea that the trade and sustainable development chapters and the human rights provisions should be covered by the main dispute settlement mechanisms of trade agreements.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
‒ i supported the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
the report aims to analyse the implementation of social and environmental standards and corporate social responsibility in trade policy, in particular in trade negotiations.
the market is a tool for promoting european values and an instrument that can bring about the effective and systematic integration and implementation of social and environmental standards in general practice.
the inclusion of sustainable development provisions in trade agreements will benefit all parties, and closer cooperation in this area with the international labour organisation is also essential.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on implementation of the 2010 recommendations of parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility.
in addition, the report calls on the eu to play an active role in achieving the 17 sustainable development goals (sdgs) contained in the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
furthermore, it stresses the significance of trade and foreign investment as important tools to achieve economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and the protection of human rights.
‒ trade is a tool for promoting european values and an instrument that can bring about the effective and systematic integration of social and environmental standards into general practice.
i believe that the inclusion of sustainable development provisions and standards benefits all parties.
the commission is making a careful effort to integrate social and environmental standards and to implement the 2010 recommendations in trade agreements.
in line with this, i also supported the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility.
the provision in the report that we should only allow agricultural products to be imported into the eu if they meet european standards for consumer protection, animal welfare and environmental protection, as well as minimum social standards, seems to me to be a good indication that we in the eu are not going to deviate from our standards.
the report thus calls on the european commission to introduce concrete responses to issues related to sustainable development and human rights.
the report also calls for the effective implementation of decisions related to international environmental and social standards and human rights provisions in the field of trade agreements.
trade agreements are still needed by the european union, because, as the text rightly says, trade is not an end in itself but a means to prosperity and equality, while promoting business opportunities, sustainable economic development, social progress and cultural understanding.
the report also highlights the importance of the sustainable development and respect for human rights and corporate social responsibility chapters.
trafficking in human beings and smuggling of human beings are unfortunately not a transient phenomenon and could become more acute in the coming years, as conflict hotspots, repressive regimes and economic conditions in the world create a favourable environment for the criminal activities of traffickers and smugglers.
today in this parliament we have spoken a lot about security in a wide variety of areas and, of course, we must also be aware of the importance of cybersecurity today, in addition to military, energy and food security.
the common energy union is... the digital union is our big opportunity.
the eu-azerbaijan partnership and cooperation agreement entered into force on 1 july 1999 and the partners have been negotiating new improved contractual relations since 2010, in line with the objectives of the eastern partnership, which were suspended in 2013. the eu-azerbaijan relations are also defined by cooperation in the energy field, which in my view should be further strengthened.
this provides an opportunity to foster further cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links, to strengthen people-to-people contacts and to enhance sectoral cooperation.
the conclusion of the said protocol will allow for the gradual opening up or enhanced participation in certain union programmes for the republic of azerbaijan, thus encouraging further strengthening of cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links.
azerbaijan is also an important energy partner for the eu but the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations is not limited to energy security and the relevance of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the framework of eastern partnership.
azerbaijan is also an important energy partner of the eu, among other things.
the main objective of the proposal for a directive is to impose obligations on public administrations and market participants, with a particular focus on market participants providing services in the energy, transport, health and financial market infrastructure sectors.
energy efficiency is the best answer to the key challenges ahead.
on the one hand, it is reducing climate change, and on the other, it is reducing europe's energy dependence on third countries.
i am very pleased that in these 20 years, when europe has been working intensively on this issue, the pluses at a, which indicate the energy efficiency of appliances, have actually been exhausted.
the report adopted changes, inter alia, the energy efficiency labelling scale for household appliances to a more transparent scale from a to g. it will replace the current scale, which is already becoming obscure for the consumer (a+, a++, a+++) due to the large number of pluses.
‒ i voted in favour of the report because i think it is important for us as consumers to know the energy efficiency of each product.
energy labelling also leads to fairer competition on the market, as price is no longer the first condition for buying a product, as people are increasingly aware of the energy consumption and there is one more mechanism for prosecuting those responsible.
‒ energy labelling has been around since its inception, giving citizens a deeper understanding of the environmental impact of products and their life cycle.
the assessment of directive 2010/30/ec has revealed a number of shortcomings which, if addressed appropriately, could lead to significant additional energy savings.
the revision aims to simplify energy efficiency labelling to make it more understandable for consumers.
it is particularly important that the simple energy efficiency labelling ag is maintained and that consumers can return and receive a refund if it is proven that the appliance does not comply with the energy efficiency requirements.
unfortunately, for the largest energy consumers, the confusing plus sign remains until 2030. on the basis of the above, i have decided to abstain.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy-efficiency labelling and repealing the directive.
a while ago, we were shocked by the emissions scandal that led to a decline in public confidence.
the energy labelling will enable citizens to compare products on their energy efficiency and to make cost-effective and environmentally-conscious purchasing decisions.
‒ i did not vote on the proposal for a regulation establishing a framework for energy labelling.
the eu energy label creates added value and helps consumers to find more energy-efficient products.
we are able to find solutions on how to change energy efficiency labelling in the future, but we have not yet fully achieved this with this proposal for a regulation.
the current energy labelling system is outdated.
for household appliances, the rapid technological progress would require a revision of the standard scale from a to g. stricter requirements would encourage manufacturers to further improve the energy efficiency of their products.
i regret that most members support the introduction of a mandatory energy efficiency label in visual advertising, which will make advertising more expensive and more complex, and will not add any value to consumers.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council setting a framework for energy efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu.
energy labelling is beneficial to the environment, as it allows customers to compare products in terms of their energy efficiency and to take cost-effective and environmentally conscious purchasing decisions.
the proposal replaces the current energy labelling framework and introduces a mechanism for the rescaling of energy efficiency classes.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for energy-efficiency labelling and repealing directive 2010/30/eu.
energy efficiency is an essential element of the european union's 2030 climate and energy policy framework and is crucial for reducing energy demand and limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
energy labelling is environmentally friendly, as it allows customers to compare products with regard to their energy efficiency and to make cost-effective and environmentally-conscious purchasing decisions.
the commission proposal thus replaces the current energy labelling framework and establishes a mechanism for the re-evaluation of energy efficiency classes.
the maritime safety agency was established to provide technical and other assistance to the institutions of the european union and the member states in the preparation and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety, pollution from shipping and maritime security.
‒ national authorities carrying out coast guard tasks are responsible for a large number of tasks in very diverse areas such as security, protection, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and general law enforcement.
the sheer volume of work and the large number of different structures cooperating with each other in the areas of security, protection, rescue at sea, border control, environmental protection mean that this cooperation is slow and often lacks information on competences and powers.
national authorities carrying out coast guard tasks are responsible for a large number of tasks in very diverse areas such as security, protection, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and general law enforcement.
i believe that this will increase the independence of the supervisory board secretariat and thus create a working environment in which the supervisory board can fully fulfil its purpose.
the fact is that the international environment has changed dramatically since the 2014-2020 financial framework came into force and has a significant impact on the use of eu budgetary resources.
cohesion policy is fully aligned with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and links between cohesion policy and other eu policies and initiatives, such as horizon 2020, have contributed to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for resolutions on the preparation of the commission work programme 2017. the resolutions set out 10 priority areas: citizens’ working and living conditions, economic recovery and long-term competitiveness, climate change and energy security, migration and refugees, citizens’ internal and external security concerns, eu external action, fair taxation, eu financial resources, completing the economic and monetary union, and the state of fundamental rights, rule of law and democracy in the eu member states.
japan's whale recovery is in violation of international whaling commission standards and international law, and is threatening the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution on japan's decision to renew the whaling season 20152016. japan continued its whaling activities despite an international ban that went into effect in 1986, killing more than 20,000 whales by 2014. whaling therefore violates the standards of the international whaling commission and international law and threatens the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
the council and the commission shall closely cooperate in assessing the current political, economic, social and environmental situation in belarus.
on the fight against climate change, i look forward to a strengthening of the joint efforts of the eu and the un to ensure the swift implementation of the conclusions of the paris climate conference at the end of 2015.
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of the report, which makes recommendations to the council on peace and security, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development, climate change and reform of the un system.
the report also recommends defining climate migrants, prosecuting sexual abuse by un troops, taking action to protect whistleblowers, and reforming the rules of special envoys to ensure neutrality.
the latter addresses recommendations to the council on peace and security, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development, climate change and reform of the un system.
this would most likely be the case with claims on energy drinks containing caffeine.
the use of health claims has been found to contribute to an increased consumption of energy drinks, which justifies the expectation that the daily intake of sugar and caffeine will exceed the recommended maximum daily intake.
this would consequently lead to adverse effects on the health of humans and in particular on adolescents, who are the most massive consumers of energy drinks.
a whopping 68% of teenagers and 18% of children regularly consume energy drinks.
children and adolescents who regularly consume energy drinks have been found to experience headaches, insomnia, and behavioral problems on a regular basis.
the commission should examine the possibility of introducing a restriction on the marketing of energy drinks to children and adolescents.
a mere non-binding discouragement of the marketing of energy drinks to children under 12 years of age is not a sufficient measure.
energy drinks have been linked to headaches, sleep problems and behavioural problems in children and adolescents who consume them regularly.
i voted in favour of the objection because i believe that the claims that caffeine helps to increase alertness and that caffeine helps to improve concentration should not be used for foods targeting children and adolescents, who are the largest group of energy-drink consumers.
i myself welcome both important reports, as well as the commission's reports on the regulation and design of the energy market and, of course, on heating and cooling in europe and the strategy in this field.
we are adopting these documents at a time when we are talking about the energy union on the one hand and committing ourselves to the environmental goals in paris last year on the other, and these two reports are going in the right direction.
it's moving in a direction where on the one hand it promotes energy efficiency, and energy efficiency is the alpha and omega of everything we need to talk about in energy itself.
i was the mayor of the first municipality in slovenia to be declared the most energy efficient, and i can tell you from my own experience how much can be done at the local level.
the water potential of renewable energy sources also needs to be discussed.
again in slovenia, in my home country, we have, through our efforts, placed five hydropower plants in the regional environment, which now produce 7% of the electricity in slovenia.
green energy, jobs and also flood protection.
leaders agreed on new measures to combat tax evasion, the united states and china agreed to ratify the paris agreement on climate change, leaders gave a yellow card to chinese dumping in the steel industry, and reiterated their commitment to global trade and free trade agreements.
the committee of inquiry into emissions from the automotive sector, together with the european commission, plays an important role in this investigation.
reducing co2 emissions is an important task for all of us, and a stronger response is needed to this kind of scandal, including by identifying and sanctioning those responsible.
i support europe's efforts to create knowledge-based and sustainable growth, balanced development and high-quality jobs in all regions.
the latter aims to create knowledge-based and sustainable growth, balanced development and high-quality jobs in all regions, including the less developed, rural and island regions.
i strongly believe that in these times of economic, financial and social crisis the eu must step up its efforts to create smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
i agree that in these times of economic, financial and social crisis, the european union must step up its efforts to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth.
cross-border cooperation in the periods 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 has produced good practices in the areas of better connectivity and accessibility, transfer of knowledge and innovation, strengthening of regional identity, addressing environmental challenges and more.
it is also important to note that around 41% of the european territorial cooperation budget under the european regional development fund is devoted to environmental improvement measures.
i agree with the recommendation that the potential of european territorial cooperation should be further developed in areas such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, energy, research, education, culture, health and the environment.
‒ i voted for the interim report that highlights several important issues regarding nox emissions and steers the emis committee’s work in the second half of its mandate.
the committee also organised visits to specialist laboratories measuring emissions and decided to commission several specialist studies in this field.
the committee of inquiry into emissions from the automotive sector is carrying out an important task together with the ec.
reducing co2 emissions is an important task for all, and such scandals need to be tackled more decisively, including by identifying and sanctioning those responsible.
this improves and introduces full transparency of natural gas and electricity prices for all users and allows for the sustainability of high quality data in this area.
i agree that a common framework for european statistics is needed to support energy policy, in particular to establish a fully integrated internal energy market for consumers.
i believe that the proposed regulation will allow for greater transparency in energy costs and prices and in the level of public support.
‒ i voted for the report that highlights that only stronger market integration can ensure more energy security for the eu.
a new energy market design is strategically needed for the achievement of a true eu energy union and this report indicates directions for the commission and proposes relevant solutions for the obstacles that have been hindering a common european market for energy.
in the future, more electricity will be traded across borders and that requires efficient cooperation from all market actors, therefore we have to build the capacity for cross-border cooperation to reflect the increasing variability of production so that sufficient energy can flow across the eu.
one of them was also aimed at the electricity market and its future development, with the aim of meeting consumer expectations, bringing the real benefits of new technologies and facilitating investments, in particular in renewable sources.
the current overcrowding of conventional power plants in the european union presents both an opportunity and a challenge to further support alternative energy sources.
unfortunately, this report does not do so, but rather largely maintains the status quo, by not giving strong support to alternative energy sources and thus not contributing to the depreciation of energy from such sources, which is essential for a more environmentally friendly economy.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the way to a new energy market design.
we must move towards the completion of the european internal market in electricity, thereby contributing to efficiency, security of supply and the development of renewable energy sources.
i support the call to adapt the existing regulatory framework of european markets to allow for a greater share of renewable energy sources and to bridge existing cross-border regulatory gaps.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the new energy market design.
it is intended to establish a european approach to energy security and to strengthen regional cooperation in the field of energy policy, in particular in investments in new energy production facilities, in interconnectors and financing rules, and in the integration of renewable energy sources into the european internal market.
‒ i voted in favour of the report entitled ‘towards a new energy market design’.
in order to achieve the climate and energy targets, the energy system of the future will need more flexibility, which requires investment in all four flexibility solutions – flexible production, network development, demand flexibility and storage.
i voted in favour because i believe that energy efficiency is a core principle of the energy union strategy, since this is an effective way of reducing emissions, generating savings for consumers and reducing the eu’s dependency on fossil fuel imports.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the road to a new energy market design.
i agree with the report's conclusions that the energy system will need to be more resilient in the future in order to achieve climate and energy goals.
‒ the resolution on the eu's heating and cooling strategy is a strategic part of a very important area such as the eu's energy stability and security, given that almost half of the eu's final energy demand is used for heating and cooling.
the eu strategy identifies key challenges and needs for increasing energy efficiency and the deployment of renewable energy sources.
the observed problems in the durability and inefficiency of residential heating systems in the eu also represent a major potential for increasing energy efficiency.
investing in energy saving and energy efficiency offers the highest and fastest return on investment in the energy sector.
the strategy recognises the active role that consumers can play in creating a sustainable european heating and cooling system.
the need to increase recycling rates is emphasised, as waste-to-energy generation will play a very important role in the heating sector.
in february 2016, the eu adopted its first heating and cooling strategy, which set the objective of reducing dependence on fossil fuels in this area and shifting consumption within the agreed commitments of the recent paris agreement and moving towards more efficient and sustainable sources, while reducing the eu's dependence on imported fuels.
the report also discusses, inter alia, building insulation, the use of energy from waste materials and the potential for greater synergies between the electricity market and the heating and cooling market.
despite the important issues that are open in this way, i believe that this is a missed opportunity, as parliament should be much more ambitious with the great european potential for energy savings, the creation of new local jobs and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
in the eu, heating and cooling account for almost 50% of final energy consumption, of which 80% is for heating and cooling buildings.
the strategy should prioritise sustainable and cost-effective solutions that enable member states to meet their climate and energy policy objectives.
almost 50% of the eu’s final energy demand is used for heating and cooling, of which 80% is used in buildings.
the report underlines the necessity to take along specific measures for heating and cooling when revising the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu), the renewable energy directive (2009/28/ec) and the energy performance of buildings directive (2010/31/eu).
moreover, the report calls for specific sustainable heating and cooling strategies to be developed at national level, giving special attention to combined heat and power.
i am of the opinion that the heating and cooling sector should reflect the 2015 paris agreement on climate change (cop 21).
as the report highlights, a heating and cooling sector that is in line with the eu's energy and climate objectives must be based on 100% renewable energy sources by 2050 at the latest, which can only be achieved by radically reducing our energy consumption and by fully applying the principle that energy efficiency is the most important fuel.
i agree that more needs to be done to reduce demand for heating in buildings and to shift the remaining demand from fuel-burning to imported fossil fuels in individual boilers to sustainable heating and cooling options in line with the eu 2050 targets.
as smes have more limited financing options and are in need of macroeconomic stability and a stable regulatory environment, this report urges the eu’s proposed capital market union to help smes gain access to other financing sources like investment capital and crowdfunding.
in its report, parliament calls on the european commission to take account of the principles of the circular economy package in order to promote more sustainable economic growth and create new quality jobs, with a focus on promoting green jobs.
i support the call on the commission and the member states to take account of the added value of smes' projects for development and innovation in traditional sectors, as this will encourage job creation while preserving local and regional business specificities, taking into account the principles of sustainability.
smes are the main driver of long-term european economic growth and sustainable job creation in the 28 member states.
the shared objective of investments under the esi funds is to provide support for the delivery of the eu’s europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the report highlights that there is an overall need for mechanisms that help to simplify the business environment and speed up the process of setting up new businesses with refit to support sme competitiveness and absorption of esi funds.
these are: economic globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy challenges and the specific geographical location.
transport and mobility are traditionally the two biggest challenges facing the alpine region, mainly due to the environmental and climatic impacts in the alps.
while such a strategy is welcome, it did not take into account the proposals of the eu parliament's committee on transport and tourism, and at the same time the report does not cover the topics of environmental and climate protection, renewable energy sources, which in my opinion are increasingly crucial in this region.
as an alternate member of the committee on transport and tourism, i support the committee's call for the commission and the member states to strengthen multi-level governance in transport planning and implement a policy of developing sustainable, inclusive and non-invasive transport infrastructure in a highly mountainous alpine region that will preserve the region and promote the balanced development of economically weaker regions and areas in the areas of tourism, social cohesion, economic development and employment.
the development priorities are: improving the competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion of the alpine region; providing access and connectivity to all the inhabitants of the alpine region (cross-border transport, intermodal links with the hinterland); and ensuring sustainability in the alps.
furthermore, it stresses the need to strengthen further the social dimension, in order to ensure the pursuit of a growth model that can secure sustainable growth, social inclusion and social protection for all, in particular in border areas.
we need to equip young people with the education and skills they need to fulfil their potential and create employment opportunities in order to promote stability, sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and development in the region.
i believe it is essential to equip young people with the education and skills they need to fulfil their potential and to create employment opportunities in order to promote stability, sustainable economic growth, social cohesion and development in the region.
it will enable the social partners at european level to contribute to the various elements of an integrated economic and social strategy, including sustainable development aspects, through social dialogue.
i believe that a continuous exchange between the social partners and the eu institutions is essential for the development of a successful eu economic and social strategy from a sustainable development perspective.
the economic partnership agreement, which covers only trade in goods, development cooperation and trade and sustainable development provisions, but leaves the door open for negotiation of additional provisions, provides for positive discrimination for the sadc partner countries signatory to the agreements and grants them duty-free access to the eu market.
‒ i supported the proposal for an economic partnership agreement between the eu and the sadc countries implementing the cap, as i believe that this agreement has the potential to bring about profound positive changes and contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepening trade and integration within the region.
the current regional trade agreement, while focusing on development cooperation and trade and including provisions on sustainable development, leaves the door open for negotiations on additional provisions on services, investment, intellectual property, public procurement and enhanced provisions on sustainable development.
however, this hazardous working environment also presents a high level of risk and incidence of occupational diseases, as the sector is characterised by an unclear division between working time, rest and leisure, and fatigue, partly due to insufficient rest, has an impact on health and safety.
‒ as the resolution states, workers in the fishing sector need special protection because of the specific characteristics of work on fishing vessels, as this sector is prone to a high number of fatal and non-fatal accidents, and the risk and incidence of occupational diseases are also much higher in this dangerous working environment than in other sectors.
we need to help companies and design our proposals in such a way that we create an environment where the differences are as small as possible.
but i have another view of smes: we need to create an environment for a more dynamic labour market.
the ‘europe 2020 strategy’ proposed by the commission should enable the union to turn its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
it must also enable the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
this will enable the european union to fully achieve its environmental policy objectives.
trophy hunting is unethical and unsustainable, and is a direct cause of biodiversity loss and endangered species.
it also points out that the universal service must evolve in response to the technical, economic and social environment and to the needs of users.
i voted in favour because i believe that the postal services directive provides member states with the flexibility necessary to address local specificities and to ensure the long-term sustainability of universal service provision.
i believe it is important to achieve the common objective of the postal services directive to ensure the sustainable implementation of the universal service, also by calling on the member states to uphold high standards of professionalism, legal protection for employees, fair and non-discriminatory access to vocational training.
i voted in favour because i believe that a diversified, well-regulated and stable financial services sector, offering a wide range of cost-efficient tailor-made funding options, best serves the actual funding needs of smes and the real economy, enabling long-term sustainable development.
i support the view of the committee on budgets that the eu budget should be used to promote long-term quality and skilled employment and the potential of smes to create decent and sustainable jobs.
‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on how best to exploit the job creation potential of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), as smes are important for strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion and contribute to smarter, more sustainable and inclusive growth.
the report emphasises that smes play an important role in strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion, while also contributing to smarter, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in addition, it stresses the need for a regulatory environment that encourages investment that concurrently fosters sustainable growth and quality jobs.
i believe that smes are important for strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion and contribute to smarter, more sustainable and inclusive growth, both in rural and urban areas.
the aim is to contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth and to promote sustainable employment by supporting redundant workers and preparing them for the new job.
i therefore support the european globalisation adjustment fund, which provides support for workers made redundant by major structural changes in world trade flows, and contributes to smart, sustainable and inclusive economic growth and promotes sustainable employment by supporting redundant workers and preparing them for the new job.
the current relations and cooperation between the acp states and the european union have been and remain focused on strengthening universal values and objectives such as the promotion of human rights, democracy and sustainable development.
on the other hand, i very much agree with the emphasis in the report that cooperation should be in areas of common interest where mutual benefit could be expected, not only from an economic point of view, but also and above all in relation to peace and security, human rights, the rule of law, good governance, democracy, migration, the environment and so on.
in this context, i propose that in the future we devote even more energy to intercultural dialogue, which is still an underestimated opportunity for added value in polarized societies that need a higher level of internal cohesion for sustainable development.
it's extremely crucial that we create efficient policies on the ground so that in a highly corrupt environment money gets to where it's needed.
– mr president, if we want to achieve the sustainable development goals we must pursue our efforts to eradicate undernutrition.
this development humanitarian collaboration has been further confirmed by the commission’s response to the food crisis generated by el niño climate change phenomenon.
i am confident that the proposed resolution on nutrition of the european parliament, the nutrition action plan of the commission and the council conclusions on nutrition can help the european union improve nutrition and make undernutrition history, as foreseen in sustainable development goals agenda by 2030.
member of the commission.
but deforestation continues and its consequences are potentially catastrophic at many levels – for the local communities that depend on forests, for the ecosystems that they support and at the global level as we deplete one of the most effective carbon sinks that we have.
imports of tropical timber in the eu have fallen, whilst china has become the world’s largest market and global political attention has shifted to other drivers of deforestation such as the competition for land and to other drivers of climate change.
the european union is aware of the importance of the forest ecosystem, and that is why it has been dealing with the problem of illegal logging and trade in this wood since the 1990s, and as you said, even during these 25 years, things have changed significantly.
besides the great biodiversity, which is one of the key problems in addition to the environmental damage, there is certainly a big problem in this area, the area of corruption and actually the inaction of the countries from which we come.
let me just tell you my own experience from slovenia two years ago, when in the winter of 2004 after the great icefall we had a lot of damage, that is climate change, caused by various phenomena, a lot of damage, when almost half of the slovenian forest was forged into ice and as a consequence, two years after that, we feel also after a very hot year great consequences with the undergrowth, which now destroy the spruce forests.
‒ i was very pleased to support the proposed decision to conclude the paris agreement, which is a historic milestone in the fight against climate change.
but the final entry into force of the agreement means that we must finally move from words to action in mitigating the effects of climate change.
the agreement calls for a halt to global greenhouse gas emissions and for climate neutrality beyond 2050. the key long-term objective of the agreement is to limit global warming to well below 2 °c compared to pre-industrial levels and to work towards limiting warming to 1,5 °c.
the eu has been a leader in the fight against climate change for many years and in 2014 set itself an ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990, to which eu member states have already formally committed themselves.
my hope is that the legally binding paris agreement is the beginning of a more sustainable earth balance!
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the paris agreement is an important milestone in the fight against climate change, as it is an ambitious, balanced, fair and legally binding agreement.
i would like to see it signed as soon as possible by the european union, which is taking the lead in the fight against climate change.
member states should therefore take the necessary measures to complete the ratification procedures by the end of 2016. this would demonstrate the european union's commitment to continue to play a leading role in the world in the fight against climate change.
‒ i supported, on behalf of the european union, the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the paris agreement adopted on the basis of the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the paris agreement is a historic milestone in the fight against climate change and in multilateral cooperation.
this joint action is intended to help the world find the right direction and prevent dangerous climate change.
the agreement recognises the need to halt the global growth in greenhouse gas emissions as quickly as possible and to achieve climate neutrality in the second half of this century.
‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the paris agreement adopted under the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the paris agreement is a historically significant landmark achievement for combating climate change and for multilateralism.
this global action aims to put the world on track to avoid dangerous climate change.
moreover, the agreement acknowledges that a global peaking of greenhouse gas emissions should be reached as quickly as possible and climate neutrality should be achieved in the second half of this century.
i voted in favour because i believe that the implementation of the paris agreement will play a crucial contribution to global efforts to tackle climate change.
i believe that this legally binding agreement will accelerate global efforts to move towards a climate-neutral economy and prevent dangerous climate change.
i voted in favour because i believe that the design of the coordinated package is compatible with the shift towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy.
the partners of the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and the eu must devote all their energies to combating and eradicating poverty and inequality, and must also commit to strengthening sustainable development.
cooperation should be based primarily on mutual benefits for the partners, in particular with regard to peace and security, human rights and the rule of law, migration, the environment and climate change.
‒ the acp-eu relations and cooperation so far have been and remain geared to strengthening universal values and objectives such as the promotion of human rights, democracy and sustainable development.
cooperation should take place in areas of common interest where mutual benefit can be expected, not only from an economic point of view, but also and in particular in relation to peace and security, human rights and the rule of law, good governance and democracy, migration, the environment, climate change and other areas related to the well-being of the population.
in this context, i propose that we devote even more energy to intercultural dialogue in the future.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020. the overarching objective of the cotonou agreement is reducing and eventually eradicating poverty, consistent with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp countries into the world economy.
and by doing so, we're also ignoring the millions of people who are opposed to these agreements, who are actually going to affect standards, both environmental and social and even labor rights, who are enforcing so-called high courts that only serve investors and their profits, not of course human rights, and the rights to clean water, healthy, unpolluted food.
‒ sustainable agricultural policy must necessarily include the fight against malnutrition.
the resolution thus reaffirms the importance of coordinated and accelerated action by global, national, local, governmental, non-governmental and private actors in addressing malnutrition in order to meet the objectives of the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goal on ending hunger.
in this resolution, parliament called on the commission and the member states to focus their activities on policy coherence for development and to give due consideration to changes in their trade, agriculture and energy policies in the interests of global food security.
a sustainable agricultural policy that works towards the objectives of the 2030 agenda is essential for food security.
sdg 2 and its associated targets aim at ending hunger and malnutrition by 2030, notably by securing opportunities for and increasing the productivity of smallholders, and achieving sustainable and climate-resilient agriculture and food systems which are capable of feeding an expected global population of 8.5 billion by 2030 while protecting biodiversity, the environment, and smallholders’ interests and wellbeing.
‒ eu industrial policy must be future-oriented and enable the economy to meet various challenges, including re-industrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality jobs.
european industry should be seen as a strategic asset for the eu's competitiveness and sustainability.
only strong and resilient economies and forward-looking industrial policies will enable the european union to meet the various challenges it faces, including its re-industrialisation, the transition to sustainability and the creation of quality jobs.
however, it also faces social and environmental challenges which it must address, whilst remaining a world reference in terms of social and environmental responsibility.
i agree with the call for european industry to maintain its competitiveness and capacity to invest in europe by listening to fundamental workers' rights and environmental standards.
‒ just as i was pleased to support the decision to conclude the paris agreement, i also supported the above-mentioned resolution on the guidelines for the 2016 un climate change conference to be held in marrakech in november.
i hope that the conference will chart a clear path towards an operational plan for implementing the key elements of the paris agreement an enhanced transparency framework, details of the global stocktake, further guidance on planned nationally determined contributions, an agreement on differentiation, loss and damage, climate finance and support for capacity purposes, etc.
as in the past, the eu must continue to set an example for others and should immediately start aligning its climate and energy objectives with the agreed international target of limiting the global average temperature increase to below 2 °c, while also working towards limiting the increase to 1,5 °c, as also defined in the paris agreement.
‒ the resolution contains the european parliament's position for the next conference of the parties to the paris agreement to combat climate change, which will take place from 7 to 18 november 2016. the resolution describes an ambitious approach and calls on member states to take an even more active role in the fight against climate change.
the resolution calls on the developed countries to further accelerate the dialogue to achieve more comprehensive reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and to implement the paris agreement as soon as possible.
it is very important to me that the resolution also contains a serious acknowledgement of the existence of the so-called climate refugees.
population movements due to climate change are a real problem of our time, and we must not turn a blind eye to the problems associated with such migrations.
at the same time, it is important that the resolution calls on countries to increase the creation of financial levers that will be dedicated solely to combating climate change.
‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakech, morocco (cop 22).
the paris agreement on climate change is an important milestone in the fight against climate change.
the adoption of the agreement and the joint declaration of the 187 parties' planned nationally determined contributions before the end of cop 21 represent a significant milestone for comprehensive and joint global action, and the agreement, when implemented, will definitively and irreversibly accelerate the transition to a climate-neutral, climate-resilient global economy.
the eu is on track to exceed its greenhouse gas emission reduction targets by 2020 and to meet its renewable energy target by 2020.
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh, morocco.
the paris agreement is to enter into force on the thirtieth day after the date on which at least 55 parties to the convention, accounting in total for at least an estimated 55% of the total global ghg emissions, have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession to the un.
the most serious effects of climate change will be felt in developing countries, particularly in those least developed countries and developing small island states that have insufficient resources to prepare for and adjust to the changes.
the resolution underlines that the eu has both the capacity and responsibility to lead by example and to start work immediately on aligning its climate and energy targets with the agreed international goal of limiting the increase in global average temperature to below 2°c, while pursuing efforts to limit that increase to 1.5°c.
i voted in favour because i believe that combating climate change is the priority and should be pursued worldwide while ensuring energy security and the development of sustainable economic growth and jobs.
‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakech, morocco (cop 22).
the resolution concludes that the emissions reduction plan is not ambitious enough to meet the paris agreement objectives and calls on eu member states to reduce emissions under current commitments and encourages politically and financially coordinated efforts for sustainable development.
i believe that the calls are justified, as the consequences of climate change are often irreversible and cause economic, ecological and social losses.
it is important that the eu maintains its leadership role in preventing climate change and actively participates in climate forums such as the forthcoming one in marrakech to achieve global performance of the paris agreement commitments with partner countries.
i supported the report because food safety is crucial to our health and a healthy environment.
‒ individual materials and articles intended to come into contact with food may, due to their specific composition, pose a risk to public health and the environment.
the report shows that the areas of environment, transport, internal market and services were the most affected by infringement procedures in 2014. if i translate this to the national level of the country i come from, the situation is similar.
‒ i supported the proposal on monitoring the application of union law annual report 2014. the 32nd annual report on the monitoring of the application of eu law by the commission shows that the areas of environment, transport, internal market and services were the most affected by infringement procedures in 2014. it also highlights that the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased over the past five years.
the commission’s 32nd annual report on monitoring the application of eu law shows that environment, transport and internal market and services remained the policy areas in which most infringement cases were open in 2014. the annual report also stresses that the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased in the last five years.
the draft implementing decision is not in line with union law and the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, namely to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states in accordance with the precautionary principle and to protect human health and the environment, where gmos are deliberately released into the environment for any reason other than placing on the market in the community or when gmos are placed on the market as or in products in the community.
the draft implementing decision is not in line with union law and the objective of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, namely to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states in accordance with the precautionary principle and to protect human health and the environment, where gmos are deliberately released into the environment for any reason other than placing on the market in the community or when gmos are placed on the market as or in products in the community.
butterfly, but the efsa impact assessment of mon 810 does not include cross-pollination of maize, which increases the risk for biodiversity.
the commission should withdraw the draft implementing decision concerning the authorisation of genetically modified maize, as no basis is provided for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market.
the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is not consistent with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is in line with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 to provide a basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market.
in addition, possible cross-contamination by an invasive plant carrying bacillus thuringiensis (bt) toxin, used as a pesticide, poses major risks for farmers and the environment.
butterfly, but the efsa impact assessment of mon 810 maize does not include cross-pollination of maize, which increases the risk to biodiversity.
the commission should withdraw the draft implementing decision concerning the authorisation of genetically modified maize, as no basis is provided for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market.
the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is not consistent with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is in line with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 to provide a basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market.
in order to further avoid continuing objections to commission decisions on gmo issues, the commission should take greater account of frequently expressed national concerns that go beyond issues relating to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health or the environment.
the commission should withdraw the draft implementing decision on the authorisation of genetically modified cotton as the basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market, is not provided.
the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law as it is not consistent with the objective of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which is in line with the general principles laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 to provide a basis for ensuring a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests with regard to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market.
iran has the second-largest gas reserves in the world and the fourth-largest oil reserves and energy cooperation can play a significant role in diversifying the sources of energy supply to the eu and reducing member states' energy dependency on single suppliers, thereby contributing to the eu’s energy security.
‒ the report on the fight against corruption and the next steps is a response to the final resolution adopted by the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering in october 2013. i welcome this report, as it calls, among other things, for the establishment of a strong and independent european public prosecutor's office with clearly defined tasks, the adoption of a legislative proposal on a european framework for the protection of whistleblowers by the end of 2017 and a focus on environmental crime.
migration is a global and multidimensional phenomenon, driven by a wide range of factors, such as economic, social and political conditions, working conditions, violence and security, environmental degradation and the frequency of natural disasters.
migration is a global, multidimensional phenomenon caused by a wide variety of factors, such as economic conditions (including changes in wealth distribution and regional and global economic integration), social and political conditions, labour conditions, the situation with regard to violence and security, the gradual deterioration of the environment and the aggravation of natural disasters.
migration is a global and multidimensional phenomenon, driven by a wide range of factors, such as economic, social and political conditions, working conditions, violence and security, environmental degradation and the frequency of natural disasters.
the report underlines that the business community, while obliged to respect human rights, may also have an important role to play in offering positive incentives in terms of promoting human rights, democracy, environmental standards and corporate responsibility.
human rights violations by economic societies are a global problem, affecting the rights of vulnerable groups such as minorities, indigenous peoples, women and children, or contributing to environmental problems.
‒ the management of natural resources, especially fuels, is of great importance for the environment.
in the spirit of the recently signed paris climate agreement, europe as a whole should take a step forward and focus on environmentally sustainable resources and consequently invest in the 'european energy transition'.
the eu strategy on lng and gas storage is part of the so-called gas package published by the european commission in february 2015. the report focuses more or less on the commission's plan to treat gas as an environmentally sustainable and sustainable resource, but does not mention the paris climate agreement and the european union's energy and environment goals.
i support the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, which stresses that the eu lng strategy should be consistent with the framework strategy for a resilient energy union and that it should support greater security of energy supply.
the internal energy market will fully integrate liquefied natural gas and gas storage and will play an important role in achieving the ultimate goal of a strong energy union.
the eu lng strategy should be consistent with the framework strategy for a sustainable energy union and should therefore support greater security of energy supply, decarbonisation, long-term economic sustainability and the provision of affordable and competitive energy prices.
the eu gas system needs to become more diverse and flexible, contributing to the key objective of the energy union, namely a reliable, resilient and competitive gas supply.
parliament called on the commission to develop a strategy for the long-term reduction of the eu's dependence on gas imports, reflecting its commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
lng has the potential to be an alternative fuel in road and maritime transport and the wider use of lng in freight transport, in particular the wider use of lng engines in maritime transport, could contribute to reducing global co2, sox and nox emissions.
gas can play an important role in the eu energy system for the coming decades, in industrial production and as a source of heat in buildings and as a support to renewable energy while the eu meets its targets on greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and renewables and makes the transition to a low-carbon economy in which the role of gas will gradually decrease in favour of clean energies.
the report underlines that all eu citizens must have access to a secure and affordable energy supply and that an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas must be consistent with the framework strategy for a resilient energy union, so as to contribute to increased security of energy supply, decarbonisation, the long-term sustainability of the economy and the delivery of affordable and competitive energy prices.
i voted in favour because i believe that finding cost-efficient and environmentally sustainable solutions should be a key principle in reaching the eu and regional optimum.
as the report concludes, the eu is still unable to fully reap the benefits of an integrated internal energy market, both because of insufficient connections and coordination and because of incomplete implementation of the third energy package.
the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage is one element of the energy union, which aims at a rapid transition of the eu to a sustainable, reliable and competitive energy system.
the report calls, inter alia, for smart investment in the energy sector, the optimal use of existing lng terminals and the upgrading of missing infrastructure.
the fisheries sector represents a huge part of the sustainable management of the seas and oceans and is therefore of great importance for the future of our environment.
it is for this reason that effective control of fishing activities should be ensured with a view to the sustainable use of living marine resources and to maintaining the same conditions of control.
it is in this context that the european union must ensure that the rules are compatible with the fishing community and sustainable fishing.
we need controls on fishing activities to ensure the sustainable use of living marine resources and to maintain a level playing field for all fleets in the european union.
the fisheries sector is a major stakeholder in the sustainable management of the seas and oceans.
the report stresses the importance of ensuring effective control of fisheries activities in order to guarantee sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and maintain a level playing field among eu fleets.
the report stresses the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and maintain a level playing field for the eu fleet, and calls on the member states to ensure the effective implementation of the control regulation.
the emphasis is on projects that are not sustainable, such as the alemania project, a road corridor that would link north-east italy to northern europe, or the via carpatica project in south-east bulgaria, which is opposed by local communities, and the increase in funding for regional airports.
local communities, the environment and sustainable development must be taken into account.
the development of transport hubs at any cost should not be the objective of the european union, but rather the need to design transport infrastructure in a sustainable way, which also has positive long-term financial implications.
the need for economic and sustainable development principles must not be overlooked when improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe.
the report stresses the need to enhance the connectivity and accessibility of the infrastructure for transport to, from and within the central and eastern parts of the eu, taking into account the needs of the economy and the principles of sustainable development.
at the same time, the needs of the economy and the principles of sustainable development must be taken into account, and missing links must be established, bottlenecks eliminated and smooth links for long-distance and regional transport ensured.
ensuring the rule of law and effective independent judicial systems play a key role in creating a positive political environment that can restore confidence in the institutions and thus a friendly environment for investment and ensure greater regulatory predictability and sustainable growth.
in addition to these priorities, the budget contains items representing progress towards a connected digital single market, a flexible energy union, a deeper and fairer internal market and the further development of economic and monetary union.
the european parliament should increase its budget, particularly in the field of environmental policies and the fight against climate change.
significant shifts should also be made in the area of european economic recovery and sustainable job creation.
this year's budget also takes into account the environmental aspect already mentioned, and i have therefore decided to support it.
i therefore join the call to the council to take responsibility, to align its words and actions and to provide a realistic, credible, coherent and sustainable eu budget for the remaining years of the current perspective.
i voted in favour because i believe that the coordinated package of measures is compatible with the shift towards a resource-efficient and sustainable economy.
plant health is a key factor in ensuring sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry.
i agree that the challenges facing the eu are linked to the deteriorating international environment, the failure to implement sustainable reforms and the disparities in economic and social performance in different parts of the union.
by supporting investment for innovation, growth and job creation, the european commission is taking a step in the right direction and could do more in the area of fiscal sustainability under the stability and growth pact, as the report rightly points out.
the ongoing current account surpluses indicate the need to stimulate demand and investment, in particular in the long term, in order to cope with future challenges in the areas of transport and communications, the digital economy, education, innovation and research, climate change, energy, environmental protection and population ageing.
the report notes with concern that the eu economy will grow less than expected on the basis of the european economic spring forecast 2016, as gdp in the eurozone is expected to increase by only 1.6%, reaching 1.8% by 2017. moreover, it stresses that the challenges in the eu are linked to the deteriorating international environment, the failure to implement sustainable reforms and the divergences in the economic and social performance in different parts of the union.
the european economic crisis has shown the importance of promoting investment in areas such as education, innovation, research and development, while increasing the eu's competitiveness through the implementation of sustainable structural reforms to promote quality job creation and the implementation of responsible fiscal policies to create a better environment for jobs, enterprises (especially smes) and investment.
the joint technology initiative on nan electronics eniac joint undertaking, the international thermonuclear experimental reactor fusion for energy joint undertaking and to refuse discharge to the european council and council for the financial year 2014. as for the discharge to the european council and council, the commission notes with regret this dispute between the two arms of the budgetary authorities, which has lasted for seven years now, thus preventing a suitable solution from being reached.
the commission also welcomes the proposal to grant discharge to the joint undertaking fusion for energy.
iter is a major international scientific collaboration in the energy field, in which the european union has assumed a strategic leading role.
but, these challenges aside, iter is one of the most promising solutions to future energy demand that can contribute to addressing global warming and climate change.
a new management has been put in place in the iter organisation and in fusion for energy and coordinated action plans have been endorsed to ensure a closer corporation.
they enable iter to remain one of the major international energy research projects and allow the european union to keep its support and leadership of this project.
at european level fusion for energy is now also in a better shape to deliver the eu contribution to the project.
i thank you for your support and look forward to the continued dialogue between the commission and parliament to make iter a success and a win for securing a sustainable energy source for the future.
but maybe in this environment, they'll find a new opportunity.
‒ i supported the draft discharge decision on the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the artemis joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research programme to develop key technologies for embedded computing systems in a variety of application areas, in order to improve european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
‒ i voted in favour of the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the artemis joint undertaking (‘the joint undertaking’) was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems across different application areas in order to strengthen union competitiveness and sustainability and to allow for the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
‒ i support the discharge for the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy.
‒ i voted in favour of the second discharge report on the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors has found that the iter joint undertaking has complied with the provisions of its financial rules for the year 2014 and that the final accounts fairly present its financial position as at the last day of 2014 and its operating result and cash flows.
‒ i supported the draft discharge decision on the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking and the fusion energy development for the financial year 2014. the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
parliament gives a discharge to the director of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. parliament approves the final accounts of the iter and fusion energy joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was set up in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament decision of 27 october 2016 on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014. i supported the discharge to be given to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014, as the court of auditors stated in its report on the joint undertaking's final accounts for the financial year 2014 ('the court of auditors' report') that it fairly represents, in all material respects, its financial position as at 31 december 2014 and its operating results and cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with the provisions of its financial rules.
i agree with the fact that the global security environment and in particular the eu security environment has deteriorated significantly and become less predictable.
the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is a landmark international treaty aimed at preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and weapons technology, promoting cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and enhancing global nuclear disarmament.
the resolution notes that worsening relations between nuclear-armed states, such as russia and the us or india and pakistan, but also russia’s threats to use nuclear weapons or to deploy them to more territories in europe, are making the eu’s security environment ever more tense.
the global security environment, and in particular the security environment of the eu, has deteriorated significantly and become more unstable and uncertain and less predictable.
in this light, the resolution rightly encourages member states to define the legal environment for volunteers and to apply the recommendations of the agenda for a voluntary policy in europe and the european charter on the rights and responsibilities of volunteers.
to encourage volunteering, a more supportive environment is essential, including a legal framework with clear rights and responsibilities for programme managers and volunteers, as well as fair funding.
in the future, it will be necessary to promote further vocational training of farmers and agricultural workers and to ensure the dissemination of scientific knowledge and innovation in order to ensure adaptability to a changing environment and facilitate the pursuit of economic activities.
i believe that further vocational training of farmers and agricultural workers will have to be encouraged and the dissemination of scientific knowledge and innovation ensured, in order to ensure adaptability to a changing environment and to facilitate the pursuit of economic activities.
the main objective of the plan is to ensure the sustainable exploitation of cod stocks in the geographical area of the kattegat, the north sea, the west of scotland and the irish sea on the basis of the maximum sustainable yield.
despite many important findings, the report does not address some other topical issues, such as the need to promote a more sustainable economy, and does not include a requirement to establish mechanisms to channel funds into investments with a long-term positive impact on society and the environment, so i abstained from voting on this report.
the parliament's report welcomes the commission's initiative as it responds appropriately to the rapidly changing market environment by promoting integration and the cross-border provision of financial services.
terrorism, hybrid threats, economic volatility, lack of cyber and energy security, organised crime and climate change are among the major threats to security.
terrorism, hybrid threats and cyber and energy insecurity leave eu countries no choice but to step up their security and defence cooperation efforts.
the security situation in and around europe has worsened significantly in recent years, due to challenges like terrorism, hybrid threats or cyber and energy insecurity, that no country is able to tackle alone.
the security situation in europe and elsewhere has deteriorated significantly in recent years due to challenges such as terrorism, hybrid threats or the lack of cyber and energy security, to which no country can adequately respond on its own.
it is therefore important to recognise that long coasts, many islands and rivers offer exceptional opportunities for sustainable waterborne passenger transport.
‒ the european union, with its long coasts, islands and numerous rivers, offers excellent opportunities for the development of sustainable waterborne passenger transport, which plays an important role in connecting european regions and can make a major contribution to strengthening cohesion.
increased use of waterborne passenger capacity would make a significant contribution, in particular, to reducing congestion and emissions and improving air quality.
on the basis of the above and the fact that the report strongly emphasises the crucial importance of waterborne passenger transport also for the development of sustainable tourism in coastal, island and lake regions and its link with the pan-european cycling network to enhance the attractiveness of european regions, i supported the report in the vote.
waterborne passenger transport, including sea ferries, inland waterway ferries, barges and passenger ships, plays an essential role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector.
the increased use of passenger water transport would facilitate this and also reduce co2 emissions.
most of europe is characterised by navigable rivers and in many areas across europe, travelling by ferry or passenger vessel would be more sustainable, easier and faster, thus increasing the social and economic well-being of the region.
while waterborne passenger transport is already one of the most sustainable modes of transport, there is still room for improvement, particularly in the area of innovative technologies for cleaner and more energy-efficient vessels.
waterborne passenger transport, including maritime ferries, inland ferries, barges and cruises, plays a crucial role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, assisted by policies that address safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness as well as service quality, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility.
i voted in favour because i believe that even though waterborne transport is already one of the most sustainable ways to travel, there is further potential to make vessels cleaner and more energy efficient through investment in research and innovative technologies.
europe's geography, with its long coasts and many islands and rivers, offers exceptional opportunities for sustainable waterborne passenger transport.
however, passenger and freight water transport faces different challenges and has different needs related to infrastructure, environmental challenges, operational issues, security and port-to-city links.
the use of all available development policy tools is good for eradicating poverty and promoting the sustainable development goals.
i support the call to use all development policy tools to eradicate poverty and promote the sustainable development goals.
development challenges have been transformed by new global challenges such as migration, food security, peace and stability and climate change, and we need decisive approaches and collaboration to address them.
the report confirms the importance of official development assistance and sustainable development finance, while also encouraging a self-initiative approach that goes beyond the assistance provided by official development programmes.
i believe it is important that all development actors engage in poverty eradication and the promotion of the sustainable development goals through closer cooperation and a sense of shared responsibility for development outcomes.
parliamentary committees responsible for some of the key areas where ceta will have a strong impact, such as environment, health, food safety, employment, social affairs and consumer protection, will also be excluded from the decision-making process on the whole agreement.
some member states are questioning whether the eu-canada free trade agreement is in line with some eu guidelines, such as the protection of health, safety and the environment.
‒ i did not support the motion for a resolution to obtain the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the proposed agreement on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) between canada and the european union with the treaties, as i consider that the trade agreement in question is compatible with the provisions of the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union and will contribute to strengthening sustainable economic development.
‒ i agree with the proposed amendment to the directive because i know how important it is to continue good practice in reducing emissions of the main air pollutants.
in this context, it is of concern that, despite the work done to reduce air pollution across the union, many member states are still falling short of the agreed standards.
‒ the proposal for a directive under consideration in this report ensures that the existing air pollutant emission ceilings in directive 2001/81/ec will apply until 2020, while setting new national emission reduction commitments until 2030. national emission ceilings are intended to reduce air pollution and its harmful effects on public health and the environment throughout the european union.
as air pollution is of a transboundary nature, this issue requires a multi-level approach, with some responsibility to be taken on at european as well as national, regional and local levels.
pollution reduction will only be possible through an integrated approach that takes into account the responsibility of polluters, jurisdiction and fair sharing of costs.
the commission proposal is unfortunately too lax in several respects, for example by failing to impose binding interim (2025) targets on member states to encourage them to reduce emissions continuously and evenly and to meet the 2030 targets, by completely excluding harmful methane from the list of pollutants, and by failing to take into account parliament's calls for legislative amendments that take greater account of the importance of clean air and other environmental objectives.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
air pollution, which in figures represents €330940 billion per year in the total cost to society of air pollution, must remain an important issue to be addressed at the level of the european union as a whole.
‒ i supported the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a directive of the eu parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain air pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
the commission's proposal is clear on air quality, which is a major cross-border issue and affects both human health and the environment.
in europe, the total external costs to society related to health resulting from air pollution are estimated at around eur 330-940 billion per year.
in addition, there is increasing evidence that the deposition of atmospheric nitrogen particles in the atmosphere causes changes in the natural environment, such as reduced diversity of native vegetation, reduced plant growth and an unbalanced nutritional status due to eutrophication and acidification.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
i voted in favour because i believe that the directive would set national targets to reduce emissions from five key air pollutants by 2030 compared to 2005.
in writing.
‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
efforts to achieve high air quality that does not have major negative impacts on human health and the environment and does not seriously threaten human health and the environment are one of the essential elements of sustainable development to which the eu is committed.
since i believe that the measures of the proposed directive will contribute to the progressive reduction of air pollution and to the provision of a high level of protection of human health and the environment, i supported it.
‒ a sustainable and well-capitalised banking system and strong global standards and principles are key to maintaining financial stability and providing credit to the real economy.
it is noted that the european security environment has deteriorated significantly and has become more uncertain, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable.
‒ the parliament's report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy finds that the european security environment has recently become much more uncertain, dangerous and unpredictable, and that member states are responding to common threats in a disjointed way, making a unified eu approach very difficult.
the security environment has changed considerably in recent years due to various circumstances and the eu needs to respond to all these changes and adapt accordingly.
i support the report which stresses that the eu should strengthen dialogue and cooperation with third countries in the region as well as with regional organisations and that it should be prepared to cope with structural changes in the international security environment and with challenges involving interstate conflicts.
athe european security environment has deteriorated significantly and become more uncertain, complex, dangerous and unpredictable.
the european security environment has deteriorated considerably, becoming more fluid, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable.
the european security environment has become more uncertain, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable.
to be ready to manage structural changes in the international security environment and to be a strong peacebuilder, the eu needs to work more closely with its member states and develop a coordinated approach within the framework of the common security and defence policy.
in recent years, we have witnessed a change in the security environment in europe.
i believe that the european food safety authority should consult experts on the toxicological effects of benzone on mammals and on its impact on the environment.
in the absence of data on actual adverse effects on the environment and human health for bentazone, i voted to accept the objection to the renewal of the approval of this substance.
it underlines that the assessment on the representative uses of the active substance bentazone to be insufficient to conclude that, for at least one of the representative uses, a plant protection product containing the active substance bentazone may be expected not to have any harmful effect on human or animal health or on groundwater or any unacceptable influence on the environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the taxation of energy products.
together with the deteriorating global environment, these regional disturbances have had a highly negative impact on external revenues and have drained public finances.
pension systems need to adapt to this in order to provide secure and sustainable pensions.
as i believe that the commission's action plan will contribute to promoting fair taxation, sustainable consumption, employment, growth, investment and competitiveness, while limiting the scope for vat fraud, i supported the report.
as the illegal wildlife trade has a very negative impact on biodiversity, existing ecosystems, the natural heritage of origin countries, natural resources and species conservation, i support the allocation of the appropriate financial and human resources needed to effectively launch the action plan to combat illicit wildlife trade.
‒ i agree that new opportunities need to be created for small transport enterprises and i supported the report, as they face major challenges in responding to the growing need for mobility with limited infrastructure and increasing environmental demands.
i voted in favour because i believe that collaborative business models constitute a major resource for the sustainable development of connections in outlying, mountainous and rural regions, and offer indirect benefits for the tourism sector.
transport companies face major challenges in responding to the growing demand for mobility in the face of limited infrastructure and increasing environmental demands.
all transport companies must provide safe, sustainable and highly competitive solutions that are environmentally friendly while reducing congestion.
i therefore believe that all legislation setting new requirements for small enterprises, in particular measures in the tax, social and environmental fields, must be proportionate, simple and clear, must not hamper their development and must reflect, where appropriate, the regional and national characteristics of the different member states.
the parliament's recommendation notes that such an agreement can play a major role in establishing a strengthened and more frequent dialogue focused on the protection of the vulnerable local environment, in particular in relation to climate change, and on the protection of human rights and gender equality, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in addition, the agreement simplifies travel conditions for entrepreneurs and encourages investment and tourism, which is particularly important in this case, since development cooperation is based on sustainable rural development and the development of human resources.
while tuvalu is one of the poorest countries in the pacific region and among the most exposed to the effects of climate change, there are significant economic differences between its islands.
it should also be stressed that investments in natural disaster prevention are of paramount importance in responding to climate change.
since the establishment of the fund, the number of natural disasters in the european union has increased significantly, and they have also become more severe and intense as a result of climate change.
‒ draft amending budget no 6/2016 provides the basis for the implementation of the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016. in this proposal, the commission proposes to amend the 2016 budget by increasing commitment and payment appropriations for assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster having serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy by a good eur 31 million.
draft amending budget no 6/2016 covers the proposed mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to floods that occurred in germany in may and june 2016. the commission consequently proposes to amend the 2016 budget and increase the budget article 13 06 01 ‘assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment or the economy’ by eur 31 475 125 both in commitment and in payment appropriations.
the amending budget proposal no 6/2016 covers the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016. i support the use of the solidarity fund as it is intended to provide assistance to germany following the short-term, exceptionally intense floods that affected the region of niederbayern in may and june 2016 and caused serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment and the economy.
the second is about sustainable development, natural resources - agriculture.
in order to address the root causes of migration, the commission launched the european fund for sustainable development (efsd) based on the establishment of an efsd guarantee and an efsd guarantee fund.
i therefore support the call on the commission to consider, in the light of the exceptional and very serious situation, the possibility of excluding sustainable reconstruction and all earthquake-resistant investments, including those co-financed by the european structural and investment funds, from the national deficit calculation under the stability and growth pact.
‒ i agree that further improvements are needed in the maritime safety directive, which complements directive 2004/35/ec on environmental liability and directive 2011/92/eu on environmental impact assessment, and the ratification of the protocol on maritime activities to the barcelona convention in the council.
these are the right steps to protect the environment, regulate human activities and ensure the safety of workers.
first, the report expresses concern that the maritime safety directive defines an accident as 'major' only if it results in fatalities or serious bodily injury, but does not include possible serious consequences for the environment, for example when the accident seriously affects protected areas or protected species.
secondly, the report rightly points out that the effective application of the 'polluter pays' principle for offshore oil and gas activities in line with the principle of sustainable development should not only cover the cost of remediating environmental damage, but also the settlement of compensation claims.
i support the report which calls on member states which have not yet transposed the environmental liability and environmental impact assessment directives to do so without delay, while ensuring the independence of the competent authorities, and on the commission to assess whether it is appropriate to introduce additional harmonised rules on liability, compensation and financial security.
according to estimates from various studies, there have been thousands of accidents in the oil and gas sector in the european union, with serious and lasting consequences for the marine environment.
i therefore consider it important that there are effective and appropriate compensation mechanisms and appropriate mechanisms for the rapid handling of claims in the event of damage caused by oil and gas activities to humans, animals and the environment.
elections are crucial to re-establish a favourable environment in the country for the free and peaceful exercise of freedom of expression, association and assembly, and freedom of the press.
‒ i support the resolution because i am aware of the importance of access to energy.
this access to energy accelerates development and reduces the scale and consequences of energy poverty in developing countries.
this requires a determined and coordinated effort by governments, civil society and other stakeholders in the relevant countries, as well as international partners, to reduce energy poverty and achieve the goal of sustainable development in those countries.
this is africa, the continent with the greatest potential for renewable energy, but also the continent that lags behind the others in terms of electrification, which affects its sustainable development and encourages the migration of poor people to the eu.
sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is of paramount importance for meeting basic human needs and rights.
in addition, access to energy is crucial for economic development.
2.3 billion people use traditional biomass for cooking, such as coal, and that often has real harmful consequences for health and the environment.
this is why programmes focusing on renewable, energy-efficient, small and decentralised energy solutions need to be encouraged.
energy poverty is most widespread in rural areas, but geographical location, connectivity and lack of infrastructure also pose a major challenge in ensuring access to energy in increasingly large areas of fast-growing cities.
renewable energy in africa has enormous potential, particularly in terms of generating solar and wind energy and providing access to all, especially in rural areas.
‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on access to energy in developing countries.
i support efforts to reduce energy poverty in developing countries.
we must not forget that access to energy is a catalyst for development.
i agree that the provisions in the regulation establishing the development cooperation instrument provide a solid basis for european union development assistance in the field of energy, while at the same time highlighting the importance of local and regional sources of renewable energy.
‒ i supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on access to energy in developing countries.
sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is of paramount importance for the satisfaction of basic human needs and rights, including access to clean water, public utilities, a safe and protected environment, health care, heating and education, essential for virtually all economic activities and a key driver of development, as access to energy also has security and geopolitical aspects and as energy issues can fuel conflict.
access to energy is a development driver and therefore europe's desire to help developing countries electrify as quickly as possible is welcomed.
‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on access to energy in developing countries.
sustainable access to affordable, reliable and safe energy is crucial for the satisfaction of basic human needs and rights, including access to clean water, sanitation, a safe and secure environment, health care, heating and education, is essential for virtually all kinds of economic activity, and is a key driver of development.
africa is both the continent with the greatest potential for renewable energy on the planet and the one lagging furthest behind in terms of electrification.
energy poverty is most widespread in rural areas, but provision of access to energy in the expanding areas of rapidly growing cities is also a massive challenge, given the realities of geography, connectivity and lack of infrastructure.
moreover, energy poverty also has a gender dimension.
the resolution stresses the strong relationship between energy and potential security issues.
i voted in favour because i believe that energy governance, while also difficult to implement, is essential to economic and human development in developing countries.
‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on access to energy in developing countries.
sustainable access to affordable, reliable and secure energy is of paramount importance for meeting basic human needs and rights, including access to clean water, public utilities, healthcare, heating and education.
access to energy accelerates development and prevents conflicts over energy issues and poverty.
i therefore support the eu's close involvement in efforts to reduce energy poverty and achieve sustainable development.
the european commission presented a new package of measures at the end of november this year, entitled 'clean energy for all europeans'.
the commission wants europe not only to adapt to the clean energy transition, but to take a leading role in this area, but unfortunately, given the contents of the package, this seems all the more unrealistic.
what is of great concern to us is that the package is unfortunately a long way from the commitments made under the paris climate agreement, as many ngos and environmentalists have also pointed out.
the increase in the energy efficiency improvement target from 27% to 30% is far too low and well below the request of the european parliament, which has already called for a binding 40% target by 2030. the package is also weak in the area of renewable energy sources, as maintaining the 27% renewable energy target is not ambitious enough and does not include binding national targets either.
the package thus falls far short of the commission's promises and could even jeopardise eu action to combat climate change.
i hope this is not another missed opportunity to take a step towards a greener, more sustainable and environmentally friendly future that we owe to our planet and future generations.
promoting sustainable democracy and inclusive economic development prevents the eu from becoming divided from its neighbours and enhances prosperity, stability and security for all.
the agreement achieves the key objective of ensuring the sustainable management and exploitation of deep-sea species, while minimising the impact of deep-sea fishing activities on the highly sensitive marine environment.
the purpose of the proposal is to establish specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic in order to enable sustainable fishing.
it urges the adoption of new legislation aimed at combating energy poverty and welcomes previous initiatives at any administrative level in the direction of guaranteeing universal access to energy.
i support ecuador's approach to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement, which will deepen relations between the two signatories and allow ecuador to develop policies of sustainable economic and social development.
i support ecuador's approach to the trade agreement with colombia and peru, as i believe that this will allow ecuador to continue its new direction of promoting policies of sustainable economic and social development.
the agreement also supports the implementation of the reformed eu fisheries management system established in line with the objectives and basic principles of the new common fisheries policy, in particular the introduction of landing obligations and mandatory measures to maintain fish stocks above levels that allow maximum sustainable yields to be achieved.
the regulation on the numerous railway packages that have transformed the railway sector is no longer compatible with the current legal environment, as it differentiates between railway undertakings that are listed (and thus entitled to compensation) and undertakings that are not listed.
the regulation is no longer compatible with the current legal environment.
as the commission states in its proposal, the regulation is no longer compatible with the current legal environment and has submitted a proposal for its repeal.
regulation (eec) no 1192/69 is no longer compatible with the current legal environment following the numerous railway packages that have transformed the railway sector, as it discriminates between railway undertakings which are listed (and thus entitled to compensation) and undertakings which are not listed.
i also find it problematic that the regulation does not include a provision on the establishment of binding criteria in public service contracts, when it comes to strengthening environmental and social aspects, as well as on the establishment of a minimum quality of public services.
in the green/eea group we also sought to include strong environmental criteria and a clear commitment to respect eu legislation in this area in the regulations, but this was rejected.
the commission proposal aims to contribute to the overall objective of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t network by creating a framework that improves the capacity of all ports and helps them to cope with changing traffic and logistical requirements.
the research programmes financed deal with production processes, resource exploitation and conservation, environmental improvements and occupational safety in these sectors.
it is also important to condemn the attacks on journalists, judges, prosecutors, as well as environmental and human rights activists around the world, which we unfortunately still see very frequently.
i am also pleased that the report is sufficiently progressive and includes strong parts on areas such as lgbti rights, combating all forms of discrimination, trafficking in human beings, migration, sexual and reproductive rights, environmental migration, freedom of expression online, support for human rights defenders, etc.
a comprehensive approach could lead to sustainable, long-term and coordinated solutions based on international human rights standards (differentiating between refugees and migrants).
‒ in recent years, the european union has faced unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change.
the european union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change.
sustainable development is one of the three pillars on which eu foreign policy must operate, alongside defence and diplomacy, and it is difficult to strengthen the market without security and stability.
i support the initiatives of the committee on budgets, which in its opinion calls, inter alia, for better synergies between the common agricultural policy and other eu policies, in particular those relating to energy, water supply, land use, biodiversity and ecosystems, and the development of remote and mountainous areas, while also calling for greater transparency of agricultural markets, making price information available to all stakeholders, including consumers.
european farmers are increasingly exposed to a variety of risks, as they are dependent on biological processes, climate change and the various impacts of plant and animal diseases (natural processes that cannot be controlled).
the agricultural sector is increasingly exposed to price volatility, due to a variety of causes, such as the instability and imperfection of agricultural markets, the increasing globalisation and development of agricultural markets, the increased volatility of supply due to climate unpredictability, the increased health risks and the uncertain balance of food supply.
the report i supported therefore advocates a more determined and coordinated policy with targeted instruments at eu and national level to ensure multi-purpose, sustainable agricultural production throughout the union at fair and profitable prices.
the 2015 statistics show that the majority of citizens turn to the european parliament for assistance on matters relating to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights.
the key topics of the committee on petitions in 2015 were mortgage legislation and risky financial instruments, the environment and disability.