remote and crowdworking create new challenges and risks, both in the mental and physical working environment.
we also want to draw attention to a major competition problem in the energy union which will have to be addressed in next year's competition report, namely gazprom's attempts to monopolize and increase its dependence on russian gas.
it is contrary both to internal energy market legislation and to european security interests.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the consequence of these reports is that no member state of the eu can legislate on higher protection and environmental standards for cableway installations, gaseous fuel combustion plants and personal protective equipment.
it is one thing to have a minimum threshold for environmental and protection measures that all member states must achieve, but it is wrong to decide that no member state should be able to improve its legislation on the protection of people and the environment on its own.
the consequence of these reports is that no member state of the eu can legislate on higher protection and environmental standards for cableway installations, gaseous fuel combustion plants and personal protective equipment.
it is one thing to have a minimum threshold for environmental and protection measures that all member states must achieve, but it is wrong to decide that no member state should be able to improve its legislation on the protection of people and the environment on its own.
the consequence of these reports is that no member state of the eu can legislate on higher protection and environmental standards for cableway installations, gaseous fuel combustion plants and personal protective equipment.
it is one thing to have a minimum threshold for environmental and protection measures that all member states must achieve, but it is wrong to decide that no member state should be able to improve its legislation on the protection of people and the environment on its own.
we believe that the commission now has a very great responsibility to follow closely developments in kyrgyzstan, including through its monitoring body, to ensure that the country fully ratifies and applies all relevant conventions on human rights, workers' rights, environmental protection and good governance.
they are against free trade and open markets and transparent energy trade.
the resolution also concerns the rights of children, climate refugees and the rights of lgbtq people, where we unfortunately see a worrying trend of an increase in violations.
the association agreement contains a number of policy measures which could have a major impact on economic, environmental and social conditions in kosovo.
there is a great and mostly well-founded concern about what these agreements might mean for the environment, consumers and procurement, and for our ability to resume failed privatisations in the public sector.
trade is good, but it is not an end in itself and it is not the overriding environment and democracy.
this includes procurement rules, but also the possibility of taking decisions in the area of climate policy.
tisa must not, however, under any circumstances lead to social dumping, unfair competition, poor working conditions and exploitation of people and the environment.
in fact, trade is probably the most important way to combat poverty and achieve sustainable development.
‒ today the european parliament voted on a record in the review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
the report also rejects a revision of the habitats and birds directives and calls for common sustainability criteria for forestry.
the report also calls for common criteria for sustainable forestry.
it is not in the interests of the biodiversity of greek or swedish forests to transfer more power over forestry policy to the eu.
- biodiversity is important.
but today we voted against the european parliament's involvement in the review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
the reason is that it rejects a revision of the habitats and birds directives and calls for common sustainability criteria for forestry.
only then can we ensure biodiversity and sustainable management of the wild stock.
the european parliament also called for common criteria for sustainable forestry.
it is not in the interests of the biodiversity of greek or swedish forests to transfer more power over forestry policy to the eu.
‒ generally a good report on ecosystem services and their role in nature, the economy and society.
the report contains a number of articles on sustainability criteria for biomass and forest management.
its importance will depend entirely on its design and it is important that these do not disadvantage sustainable production from scandinavia and respect that forestry policy is a competence of the member states.
i voted against the reports on the opening up of the rules on environmental inspections on the problem of pesticide resistance, because i do not think it is justified to change the framework for that reason.
overall, the report contains important comments on the considerations that should be taken into account in the review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
- biodiversity is important.
but today we voted against the european parliament's involvement in the review of the eu biodiversity strategy.
the reason is that it rejects a revision of the habitats and birds directives and calls for common sustainability criteria for forestry.
only then can we ensure biodiversity and sustainable management of the wild stock.
the european parliament also called for common criteria for sustainable forestry.
it is not in the interests of the biodiversity of greek or swedish forests to transfer more power over forestry policy to the eu.
'the own-initiative report is not legislation and is mainly concerned with taking action against the serious depletion of europe's biodiversity.
but the report is also good and the eu must do more to address the depletion of biodiversity in many eu countries.
sweden is far ahead, not least because of our forestry policy, which combines biodiversity and the use of forest resources.
the protection of biodiversity is vital for europe's future, but current efforts are insufficient.
countless jobs depend on biodiversity and nature.
we take responsibility for the eu's commitment to sustainable, environmentally friendly and social development.
if the commission wants the eu to be a leading actor in, for example, the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals, i call on the commission: swallow your pride, do it again, do it right there is still time for that.
i think it is time for the commission to take its mission seriously and start protecting people, the environment and health rather than industrial interests.
with a growing population and increasing climate threats, modern plant breeding is needed in europe.
this includes modern techniques for growing crops and other plants that can feed the world's population and contribute to a better climate.
with a growing population and increasing climate threats, modern plant breeding is needed in europe.
this includes modern techniques for growing crops and other plants that can feed the world's population and contribute to a better climate.
with a growing population and increasing climate threats, modern plant breeding is needed in europe.
this includes modern techniques for growing crops and other plants that can feed the world's population and contribute to a better climate.
russia has been allowed to dominate serbia's energy market and thus exposed itself to future pressure.
this lack has hampered economic development, damaged jobs, reduced the movement of goods, services and people, damaged tourism, created problems with energy supply and exacerbated the climate challenge.
but if we look upon the problems regarding stability – putin, the fall of states in the middle east and northern africa, the refugee crisis and climate policies – i do not think anyone can see how we can solve these problems or deal with these problems without being unified.
they want us to have a responsible energy policy, climate policy and environmental policy, and it is up to us to ensure that we can deal with that and show the way.
investments for the benefit of society are required not only in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
this law will be an important step in the fight against antibiotic resistance in animals and humans and in the environment.
the law, if passed tomorrow, will be an important step in the fight against antibiotic resistance in both humans and animals and in our environment.
the report supports the extremely costly iter fusion energy project when the eu should instead invest heavily in renewable energy and energy efficiency and savings.
since there was no opportunity to vote on the individual texts in this report and since the report contains important political signals, such as the need for the budget to take account of the global climate agreement concluded in paris last year and the importance of full funding of the eu's research programmes, i nevertheless chose to vote in favour of the report as a whole.
i am in favour of reforms that reduce the administrative burden on businesses, but not if simplification of legislation has negative consequences in areas such as the working environment and the protection of workers, or limits the legislator's ability to regulate.
the global climate agreement, the new sustainable development goals, and a large part of the african countries rising from poverty: these all show that we live in a time when global cooperation really can make a difference.
if we do not create a new, common and sustainable asylum system, more countries will be forced to act unilaterally, which will hurt mobility, trade and – most of all – it will hurt the human beings who are fleeing.
we need to demonstrate the value of 28 countries and 508 million inhabitants joining together: to address challenges such as climate change that no country can manage alone, in this time of global interdependence; to create an even larger common market, in this time of global competition; and to generate greater security for our people, in this time of global unease.
in a social europe, the eu should work to unleash the energy of a growing labour force.
my former employer, the world bank, called the european union a lifestyle superpower because of the standards we have established for our citizens – standards in gender equality, in public health and in the environment, and above all in our welfare system.
we live in a time when the crises coming from outside - russia, syria, russia in syria, isis, terrorism, climate change, refugees - are challenging the very values that are the foundation of our society.
but now i ask you, stefan löfven, to take the helm of the council of ministers and convince the other governments of the need to create a solidarity-based, sustainable asylum policy in the eu.
we've been grappling with a climate challenge where we have to find our solutions for the future.
it will also benefit public health and the environment in europe.
i am also pleased that the proposal includes who will have the right to prescribe veterinary medicines, what data will be collected, how they will be used and how we will manage the environmental risks in this context.
the package is well balanced between consumer considerations, the proposal to provide strong incentives to the industry to manufacture medicines, including the generic industry, the fight against antibiotic resistance and environmental considerations.
if this is the end result, we will have helped to create greater access to effective medicines that are manufactured and used in a way that does not threaten public health, animal health or our environment.
getting the right political climate for democracy to work is also important.
it is easy to come up with figures - not necessarily correct figures - but figures for how much it will cost a company to implement, for example, a new good environmental legislation.
i am very happy that we all share the ambition of promoting sustainable fishing, keeping fish stocks above levels that can produce maximum sustainable yield, not only inside the eu waters but also outside the eu.
the regional management of fisheries should be encouraged, including control programmes, and the network of fisheries agreements is to be used to ensure that other distant fishing fleets also respect the same standards of sustainability.
the eu should encourage third countries to develop a regulatory framework for joint ventures from the eu and other interests as the best way of ensuring that such joint ventures are sustainable and transparent.
there is every reason to be sceptical of the agreement in question, which was basically only created as a consequence of the lack of a sustainable european migration policy.
the result has been that the commission, while talking about simplification and reducing burdens, has put forward proposals which would have made things easier for companies but which would also have led to a deterioration in the working environment, health and social rights of workers.
i would like to see the principle established that simplifications must never, under any circumstances, lead to a deterioration of the situation of workers, consumers and the environment.
and by that, i don't just mean diplomacy or security sector reform, but i also mean we should fight the consequences of climate change, poverty, oppression, unfair trade conditions, and so on.
climate, trade and development policies are important to achieve a more just and peaceful world.
and yes, laura, the trilogues and international agreements must be more transparent, but we need to ensure a climate of mutual trust and the space to think.
i wanted to mention the visions that the commission, among others, has put forward in its work to make the energy union one of the major tasks of this mandate: to bring about a real change, to enable us to create common energy markets in europe to a greater extent, to increase energy self-sufficiency and production, to move closer to the climate objectives by investing more in our own energy, renewable energy, instead of the heavy dependence on imports that europe has on the outside world, and not least from russia, which we are discussing now.
it provides a basis for strengthening europe's position in the world and for strengthening our competitiveness, and it will also create many more jobs in the future, but also lower energy prices in the long term.
the problem with this investment that we are talking about [...], is that this is going to go directly against almost every point of the vision that we are talking about for the energy union.
and when you look at it from that perspective, it becomes unreasonable to make efforts, like one day talking about doing something together, creating sustainable development with less carbon, and also less vulnerability, but the next day doing the opposite.
i would therefore also like to continue the argument put forward here by mr buzeck, chairman of the committee on industry and energy, with regard to the third energy package, that if we in europe really want to follow the rules we have set out in the third energy package, then it may be unreasonable, impossible for them to be compatible with this package, since nord stream 2 involves a supplier who has complete control over the entire infrastructure.
i think it must be remembered that russia has used energy as a political weapon for the last thirty or forty years more than any other country, and gazprom is the main player in that game.
it is not compatible with the principle and rules of unbundling, with the third energy package.
it is not – and i cannot see how it could be – compatible with the aims and the rules of the energy union.
i am convinced that nord stream 2 is not in line with the energy union objectives, our climate ambitions or the eu's objective of diversifying energy producers.
the simple answer is that the eu member states do not trust each other in terms of energy supply, and in the absence of that trust we allow russia to play the member states against each other.
it will give russia more power to use energy to push out individual countries.
it will increase gazprom's and russia's dominant position, reduce the diversity of suppliers, put ukraine and surrounding countries in a difficult position and destroy climate ambitions.
this information can enable consumers to have complementary information such as the date of catch, date of landing, more information on fishing gear, the flag state, information on the nutritional value of the product or environmental, ethical or social information.
the agreement with mauritania is a good one in many ways and has become a symbol of the eu's external fisheries policy, where the eu is trying to raise standards and force other fleets from nations such as china, taiwan and russia to adapt to more sustainable conditions.
both labour law and the environment must be taken into account and in this case the report does not meet both requirements.
overfishing is a major problem, particularly by foreign boats, and the risk is that the agreement will not contribute to sustainable fisheries despite its intention.
both labour law and the environment must be taken into account, and in this case the report does not meet the requirements.
while i am certainly committed to development in the eu, be it in mountainous areas or in urban areas, the report overlooked the fact that growth is the result of a combination of an innovation-friendly business environment and functioning social policies.
this is true, but this is mainly because we have completely failed to find a sustainable common european solution.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i am very happy that we now have two packages of proposals from the commission to tackle the situation with the refugees in a more determined and sustainable way.
since the european commission presented its energy union strategy in february 2015, the aim has been to ensure that everyone in europe has access to safe, green, sustainable and competitive energy.
hydropower has a particularly important role to play in meeting the energy union objectives, as 16% of the energy produced in the eu in 2013 came from hydropower.
however, the eu's growing energy needs cannot be met by better regulation of existing resources alone.
we also need to look at how we can use unused hydro-energy resources.
in bosnia, only 37% of that energy is estimated to be used today.
so, mr president, let me be clear and repeat: it is not just by linking up and better regulating existing resources, but we must also look at our neighbourhood to achieve the objectives of the energy union.
this also needs to be done in the field of hydro-energy and energy supply.
in this context, it is also of great importance that china is working on climate change adaptation in the steel industry to reduce energy consumption and co2 emissions.
therefore, i support the commission and the rapporteur to entrust coordination to an eu level to combat energy poverty.
three measures seem to be essential: the coordinated definition of energy poverty is needed, however you weight it in different countries; member states need to develop measures to specially target energy—poor citizens, especially by removing the fee for switching suppliers; and better information on prices and transferred billings.
these are found in the eu member states with the most liberal energy markets.
consequently, i believe that the liberalisation of the energy market and the fight against energy poverty go hand in hand.
what our municipalities and our migration agency are showing and saying is that this is an emergency, and then it's just a temporary pause to be able to create a functional, long-term and sustainable possibility to continue to receive refugees in a dignified way, in a humane way.
‒ the ongoing energy transition is moving away from an energy system based on traditional centralised power generation towards a more decentralised, energy efficient and flexible energy system based largely on renewable energy.
in this transition, it is becoming increasingly important to empower energy consumers and i welcome the report in these areas as the eu has an important role to play here.
unfortunately, however, the report contains a lot of information on energy poverty, which does not belong at eu level, since this is social policy that the eu should not be involved in, and i therefore voted against those parts.
we social democrats have voted in favour of the report on a new gift for energy consumers.
we are convinced that active action will be required to combat energy poverty.
discounts to different groups may be one way, and where energy companies choose to give such a discount we are of course not against it.
however, we believe that there are more long-term sustainable measures than electricity discounts, such as an active distribution policy and targeted energy efficiency initiatives, etc., to reduce the energy costs of vulnerable groups.
‒ on the report on a new gift for energy consumers, we voted against the demand that energy poverty be tackled at european level.
energy poverty needs to be addressed, but it should be done within the social safety net of each member state and is the responsibility of each member state.
it should be the focus of the construction of the european energy union.
however, i have always been in favour of the right of countries to develop environmental and consumer laws to better protect people, nature and animals.
but unfortunately, the eu's prioritization of trade within the single market has had negative consequences in several countries for the environment, consumers and animal rights, as well as for labour law and collective agreements.
since the internal market must be accompanied by effective protection for consumers, workers and the environment, we chose to vote against a few points where we consider the texts to be contrary to our values.
we believe that the member states should of course continue to be able to legislate on the protection of consumers, workers and the environment without this being considered an unjustified obstacle to the internal market.
the swedish social democratic delegation voted in favour of several of the good papers which highlighted the importance of strengthening consumer protection, workers' rights and environmental requirements.
we also fully support the papers which highlight the potential of the social economy to create sustainable and secure jobs within the eu's internal market.
90% of belarus' energy imports come from a single importer, namely russia.
once again, we see russia trying to use energy as a weapon to influence other countries in the direction that suits the kremlin.
firstly, because the project obviously has a huge environmental impact on other countries, and secondly, because the project is not in line with the eu's objective of diversifying europe's energy sources.
in the context of climate change, rising food demand, population growth and threats to the environment, we really need to support agricultural innovation in order to increase the productivity and sustainability of the sector.
‒ this report highlights the importance of all eu policies contributing to the achievement of the union's development policy objectives and to the achievement of the international sustainable development goals.
‒ i share the view expressed in this report that we must increase agricultural productivity in a sustainable way.
i also welcome that we have put food waste back on parliament’s agenda.
100 million tons of food is lost in the eu every year and food waste is economically, sustainably and ethically unacceptable.
my campaign ‘basta to food waste’ has highlighted that it is high time to step up our action over decades.
i will finish by saying that food waste is our common challenge and we need not only to consider it an option, but a necessity.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we need to support innovation in the agricultural sector to increase productivity and sustainability.
in view of the increasing demand for food resulting from global population growth and some of the negative effects that agriculture can have on the climate, constructive measures need to be taken to enable farmers to produce more food, with fewer resources and in a more climate-friendly way.
anything else is a waste of people.
therefore, we need to strive for stable public finances but also remind ourselves that, if we in the european union on average have a 10% to 15% higher tax load than in any other competing region, of course this is influencing the climate for investment.
so let us change the climate for investment in all parts of the european union and go ahead with that.
space research and increased space capacity can be very useful from a broad security perspective, for example by facilitating humanitarian operations and disaster management, or for monitoring global warming and natural disasters such as droughts, earthquakes or floods.
‒ the environment party takes the situation in venezuela, the major democratic deficits and human rights violations in the country very seriously.
‒ the environment party takes the situation in venezuela, the major democratic deficits and human rights violations in the country very seriously.
‒ the environment party is very concerned about the difficult situation in which the venezuelan people are currently found, both in terms of basic daily needs and the political situation.
it is not only contrary to international law, but it poses a serious threat to biodiversity and marine ecosystems.
this uncertainty requires safety margins when determining maximum sustainable yields of fish.
to achieve the goal of a healthy baltic sea with viable fish stocks, we cannot always fish at the maximum sustainable yield - fmsy.
my problem with this is that we already have a huge amount of renewable energy that we are not transmitting and therefore not using.
there is a case in spain where we have an enormous amount of renewable energy that is not passing over the border of france.
do you not think that the commission should put much stronger effort into transmitting renewable energy?
tackling energy and climate issues is one of the most important things we have to do in this mandate.
we must make real what we promised each other in paris, and then we must ensure that we phase out subsidies to fossil fuels and instead focus policy on promoting a transition to 100 per cent renewable energy.
one way of doing this is to strengthen the interconnection between our different energy systems in europe.
and we emphasize that increased regional cooperation can increase the cost-effectiveness of the systems and help that when the sun does not shine in one country, we can use the energy from wind power in another country or water power in a third.
renewable energy requires a more decentralized system, and we need to do more to create it now.
mr president, energy efficiency is about economic efficiency and reducing emissions, not about reducing our economies.
first of all, open markets – open for new and renewable energies, but also open for competition, pressing prices, but also securing the best way of using the energy we have.
market prices, because otherwise there will be no opportunity for the new emerging energy sources to be successful.
so the whole issue, mr commissioner, about nordstream 2 is also part of achieving energy efficiency in the european union and a functioning energy union.
the original commission proposal was a good plan to make the baltic sea fisheries more sustainable.
unfortunately, the report was watered down, for example, it is allowed to fish above the recommended levels of sustainability (maximum sustainable yield) and we can never support that.
this report threatens both biodiversity and the fisheries sector, as fish stocks are being depleted by overfishing.
‒ today i voted on the own-initiative report on the state of play of renewable energy.
the report contained problematic proposals for binding targets of at least 30% renewable energy as well as national sub-targets.
the report also included a problematic point on forest bioenergy and its alleged negative impact on the environment.
i believe that it is the responsibility of the member states to control their own energy mix and to stick to the percentages already decided, but i nevertheless chose to support the report in the final vote in plenary, as the report was broadly based on messages about the importance of renewable energy solutions.
‒ today we voted in favour of the report on the state of play of renewable energy.
renewable energy is a prerequisite for achieving environmental and climate objectives and requires an energy market based on open and free competition, market prices and incentives to invest in new technologies and transmission.
the report adopted by parliament proposes a binding target of at least 30% renewable energy with national sub-targets.
however, we believe that it is, and should remain, the exclusive competence of the member states to control their own energy mix.
the report also includes a paragraph which points to bioenergy from forestry as potentially harmful to the environment and the climate.
sweden has a long and broad experience of using forests in an efficient and environmentally friendly way, which uses forest resources with the least possible climate and environmental impact.
we therefore do not share the report's problematic approach, but on the contrary, we see sustainable forestry as part of the effort to reduce emissions.
mr president, i share the report’s attempt to strike a reasonable balance between the health and environment concerns and the competitiveness of eu industry, manufacturing and jobs.
but we should be aware that despite the improvements in the last decades air pollution remains a major concern.
the challenge before us is the capacity of making environmental legislation being seen as an economic opportunity.
it is no easy task to promote a constructive integration policy in a social climate where xenophobia and fear are spreading.
i think it is important when you discuss energy efficiency labelling that the whole idea is not to get things right.
and i think this is important not only for this discussion but for a lot of other discussions about energy use and energy efficiency.
that is a very clear sign from this discussion about energy labelling.
be proud of what we have achieved, a reunited europe, an internal market, a common policy on climate, energy, and the environment: that is what we are, that is a good delivery.
the report highlights an important criticism of the eu's current trade policy, which is largely inconsistent with social and environmental standards.
i would stress that trade can only play a positive role if it is surrounded by a framework which requires respect for social and environmental standards.
‒ we moderates voted today in favour of the report on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility in trade policy.
the eu's trade policy shall be conducted in a manner that promotes sustainability, human rights and poverty reduction.
azerbaijan is an important energy partner for the eu.
hence, eu-azerbaijan relations should not be restricted to energy security.
it is important to me that in the negotiation of free trade agreements, issues such as human rights, environmental aspects and animal welfare standards are also raised.
silencing people who have the energy and the civil courage to react to and expose crime and corruption and serious misconduct and irregularities they should not be punished.
‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of health claims on energy drinks, as i consider them to be misleading and encourage increased consumption.
it is not primarily the caffeine in energy drinks that is unhealthy, but the sugar that is associated with, among other things, obesity and diabetes.
i do not think that the sale of energy drinks should be banned altogether, but only that claims aimed at increasing consumption should also take into account negative aspects.
starting with the langen report, i am very glad that this house shares our commitment to promoting a more market—oriented, flexible and decentralised energy system providing the right investment signals for the energy transition.
but, on the other hand, we have not yet managed to adapt our market framework sufficiently to the challenges that decarbonisation, and in particular the massive roll-out of variable renewable generation, have brought along.
adapting our energy system to the new challenges will require action on at least four fronts.
second, we need electricity markets to give the right investment incentives for a successful energy transition by strengthening price signals.
third, a more integrated energy market will also require us to find new ways of deepening our cooperation across borders on all levels.
likewise, more cooperation between regulators will be needed to match closer tso cooperation and this includes reviewing the role of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer).
this is not a viable approach and, if left untouched, it seriously risks distorting the internal energy market.
the main purpose of such a framework will be offer a common approach to assess the adequacy of energy systems.
turning now to the gierek report on heating and cooling, this report highlights the fact that this sector could be an absolute game changer when it comes to energy security, economic growth and reaching our energy and climate targets.
the report places emphasis on the ‘energy efficiency first’ principle and the push for renewables to replace fossil fuels.
let me remind you that heating and cooling in our buildings and industry account for half of european union energy consumption and are largely powered by fossil fuels.
seventy-five percent of our buildings are energy inefficient and are mostly fitted with old boilers with low efficiency rates.
we need to link up heating and cooling to electricity networks and to renewable energy more effectively.
that will reduce costs for consumers and provide storage for valuable energy.
our market design proposals will provide the flexibility and demand response to make that happen, and our upcoming review of the energy performance of buildings directive will prepare the ground for making buildings smart and ready for the new solutions.
under the revised renewable energies directive, we will be aiming at further integrating renewable energies of all types in this sector, but we also need to speed up renovation rates.
our implementation work, combined with the upcoming review of the energy performance of buildings directive and the energy efficiency directive, will strengthen the drive to replace inefficient boilers faster and incentivise renovations in multi—apartment buildings.
both of these reports highlight how important it is that we get on with building the energy union that this house has supported since day one.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
in the climate policy debate, we usually talk about emissions from industry, electricity generation or transport, but the fact is that one of the biggest sources of emissions is heating and cooling.
almost 50% of the energy we use in the eu is used for this purpose, and 75% of it comes from fossil sources.
that is why, in my work on this strategy in the committee on the environment, i have focused on the fact that the eu should not be a detail manager or lock itself into a specific solution.
another thing that is almost as important is to see the potential of biomass from the forest to generate district heating and also to dare to see the possibilities of energy recycling, because if we start fighting it, the way many people now want, then we are stuck in fossil fuels.
if we are to succeed in the green transition of europe's energy system, the electricity market needs to be organised in such a way that we use resources more efficiently.
our historical national boundaries are rarely the best geographical division for our energy markets, which could be allowed to function better with new geographical divisions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy market is not affected by the crisis.
meeting the climate challenge requires an energy market and its design that produces more renewable energy.
mr president, heating and cooling represent the largest share in the eu’s energy demand.
if you want that demand not to ruin the climate goals we set, we will have to solve the existing problems.
as an example, two thirds of the eu’s buildings were built when energy efficiency requirements were non-existent, and nearly half of buildings have individual boilers that were installed before 1992. that is why improving the heating and cooling sector all around the eu is going to play a crucial role in reaching the goals of the paris agreement but, in order to achieve that, eu member states should be pushed to do more, to do something concrete, to support concretely innovation, energy prosumers, households, local enterprises that are constantly monitoring their energy consumption, that produce energy they sell back to the grid.
we need to deal with the refugee crisis, syria, russia, climate, epidemics, racism and the only thing the 20 largest economies agree on is voluntary knowledge diffusion.
the conflicts on the islands in the south china sea were also avoided, as were, in reality, the issues about obligations for the countries to fulfil to combat climate change.
we social democrats voted today in favour of the report on a new market model for the energy market.
the report highlights several good points and a new market model for the energy market is necessary in view of the developments in the field of renewable and flexible energy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks of chemical pollution caused by certain dangerous substances.
we see no need for harmonised eu action in this area, and it may threaten the independence of local, municipally owned energy companies with their own production.
we also voted against a report on what are allegedly better market-oriented so-called investment promotion measures to promote renewable energy.
however, the way for a complete, full-fledged internal energy market is still long, and further steps are needed.
we need to continue pushing eu member states for a full implementation of the third energy package.
full and correct implementation of such legislation will bring more consumer protection, enhance the unbundling of energy networks and promote a better functioning of retails markets.
after all, some 60 million people around the world are refugees, not just from war, but also from poverty, political oppression, climate change.
we swedish social democrats welcome the fact that the stated objective of the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the sadc contracting states (epa sadc) is to contribute to sustainable development and long-term poverty reduction.
the european commission must now deliver on its promise that compliance with the sustainability chapter and respect for human rights will be carefully evaluated and that civil society will play a very active role in this follow-up process.
climate impact is one of those issues that we must discuss very broadly, including in this cooperation.
indeed, progress in hunger reduction has been substantial in spite of the difficult global environment.
on the one hand, we have this parliament which can tell us how to reduce food waste.
it is also positive that the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals are being called for to be given a central role in a new agreement.
they are stuck because britain and france have failed to find any political solutions that are sustainable.
that is the truth, and we need to stay with the requirement that the minsk agreements must be respected, we must stand strong together, we must discuss energy policy from this perspective – including the nord stream ii project – and we must require that those who are guilty of the mh17 are found and taken to court.
the cultivation of gm crops is in many cases based on the use of herbicide pesticides, which have devastating effects on biodiversity, deplete arable land and, in the long run, threaten sustainable agriculture.
we therefore want to see a phasing out of the use of such gm crops, so that food production is gradually replaced by more sustainable alternatives.
however, this phase-out must be pursued in a long-term and sustainable manner, which is why we do not support drafts which we fear may complicate the existing food supply in countries.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i would have preferred a resolution that clearly rejects austerity and calls for the eu to adopt an expansionary green economic policy that, through climate-smart investment in industry and the public sector, will get the wheels rolling again.
the absence of such a definition leaves open the possibility of interpretations which could lead to serious deterioration of the working environment and the rights of workers and consumers.
we have an even greater responsibility to end the bloodshed and, in the long run, to achieve a sustainable future and peace.
i am glad that we have succeeded in doing so and that it is in place for the forthcoming climate conference in marrakech.
this is the time to show that we are capable and willing to actually work towards the solutions that are required if we are to reach the goal of limiting global warming to a maximum of 2 degrees and ideally to 1.5 degrees.
if we are to show the seriousness of the fact that climate change is not an obstacle but a lever for a sustainable society and a more resource-efficient green economy, it is clear that the eu must lead that development.
we need to reduce emissions more and faster than we are doing now, but we also need to create the right incentives for industry to be bold in making climate-smart investments.
i would also like to stress that the climate change must be a matter for society as a whole.
it's not okay for some industries to take a shortcut on others, without contributing to climate change.
we take requests on migration policy, consumer issues, environmental issues and all sorts of other things.
‒ tackling climate change is one of the biggest challenges we face and it is vital that all countries of the world shoulder their share of the burden.
climate finance and technology transfer are important to reduce emissions in less developed countries.
for us, there is no doubt that climate change is the fate of our time.
the eu's commitments under the paris agreement may mean that financial resources for climate action may increase in the short term, and we therefore welcome the commission's undertaking of a comprehensive assessment of the possible impact of the agreement on the eu budget.
it shows, inter alia, that the environment, transport, the internal market and services remained the policy areas with the highest number of infringement procedures in 2014. the report is critical of the fact that the work of upholding eu law is still not sufficiently transparent.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment, and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the challenge of keeping global warming below two degrees will require a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
this is why it is crucially important that the commission further assesses the systemic risk associated with the low carbon transition and proposes, where necessary, transparency requirements and policies to mitigate systematic risk as much as possible.
the lack of rail and road connections has created major enormous communication problems in eastern europe and has impeded economic development, damaged jobs, reduced the mobility of goods, services and people and damaged tourism, created problems with energy supply and exacerbated climate issues.
this is unfortunate, as clarity on the definition of who is a refugee and a generous refugee policy that does not include economic migration is a prerequisite for a sustainable migration policy and a generous refugee policy.
‒ this own-initiative report takes important steps towards a sustainable, secure and competitive energy system in the union.
it is essential that the eu does not impede the emergence of other types of energy, including biogas, in order to take more superficial steps towards a green transition.
the availability of lng and improved infrastructure can also contribute to economic benefits, as the current market supply allows for competitive energy prices.
in the vote on the report on an eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage, we voted in favour of the texts concerning nord stream 2. we generally share the concern expressed in the report about the implications for security of supply, security policy and eu energy policy that the nord stream 2 project may have.
we also chose to abstain on the texts in the report which refer to the possibility of increasing energy trade relations with the united states, including through ttip.
the increased supply of liquefied gas on the global market offers opportunities to diversify the eu's energy supply, but at the same time our delegation wishes to underline the importance of reducing the eu's long-term dependence on gas to achieve its climate and energy objectives.
madam president, plant health is a key factor in promoting the sustainable and competitive agricultural sector.
it results in overproduction and negative effects on the environment, climate and livestock.
as regards trade in the internal market, it is important to standardise the use of tfa to create incentives for good practice, while the resolution advises against replacing tfa with palm oil which is harmful to the environment, public health and the producer.
it is also important that eu action does not encourage food manufacturers to increase the amount of palm oil in their products, as this could lead to high environmental and social costs and serious human rights violations.
by passing this resolution, this parliament will take a lead in the political efforts for a sustainable solution in northern iraq and its vulnerable minorities.
i am convinced that a change towards a more open and democratic climate in belarus requires a functioning civil society.
madam president, farmers are currently facing a very difficult situation, and it is crucial to ensure a sustainable, competitive and economically viable sector in the future.
but it still wants to operate within the framework of the cap and is deficient in respect of the environment, climate, rural development, organic farming, improved animal husbandry and concrete proposals for increased employment in rural areas.
europe must focus energy and resources on fixing those tasks that nato cannot do and is not equipped to do.
part of bosnia – republika srpska – is helping to spread russian influence through energy and several other countries are exposed to organised information campaigns from the kremlin.
of course, such an orientation should build on the legal frameworks set by the stability and growth pact and take into account the broader fiscal sustainability concerns.
it is to a high degree dependent on a unique monetary policy that is not sustainable in a long—term perspective, but it is also based upon the credibility of the stability pact and the stability of public finances.
indeed member states need to continue to pursue structural reforms to make their economies more competitive and build confidence in their economic and business environment.
– madam president, honourable members, the environmental goods agreement (ega) negotiations were launched in july 2014 and are today at a finalisation stage after two years of intense negotiations, comprising 17 rounds of talks involving 44 world trade organisation member countries, including the 28 eu member states.
if we do that, we will send out a very strong signal that trade policy can contribute positively to environmental protection and fight against climate change by eliminating tariffs on a list of environmentally sound products.
first you ask whether the commission can ensure that the eu is conducting these negotiations pursuing primarily environmental-protection objectives and not influenced by specific sectoral interests to reduce tariffs on a certain number of goods.
let me reiterate that the key guiding principle of the ega negotiation is to eliminate tariffs on a list of goods that are environmentally sound and contribute positively to environmental protection and to fighting climate change.
in the years of negotiations, ega members have closely scrutinised all nominated products from the environmental perspective, with a view to removing those that raised doubts.
on the eu side, we have supported products crucial for renewable energy generation, products that are energy efficient due to their particular role with regard to the implementation of the paris agreement and the shared goal of limiting global warming to 2°.
the negotiations also cover imported environmental products to contribute to clean air, soil and water, products that are used for waste management, environmental analysis and monitoring.
in this process the negotiators have consulted relevant international organisations such as the united nations environmental programme and the international renewable energy agency and we have, of course, also sought the views of various national environmental agencies, environmental ngos and industry.
furthermore, customs officials have helped to ensure that the environmental products are clearly defined and can be differentiated from other similar products in the customs nomenclature.
now, let me clarify too that, while environmental aspects are, of course, key in these negotiations, they are also trade negotiations, and these negotiations will be positive for us, especially for smes, which will be able internationally to trade environmentally sound products at less cost and with less burdensome procedures.
non-tariff barriers and services related to trade in environmental goods do play an important role in the green sector and, on the eu side, we have been vocal on the need to address the market imbalances and to include a work programme to look into this.
but the ega environmental goods agreement should not be controversial.
a green fta combining free trade and sustainability should be inclusive, but there are threats to it.
although they come to me from time to time in my role on the environment committee and tell me that they are indeed the most environmentally friendly in the world and the best in the world, they do everything they can to stay off the list of environmentally friendly products in this context.
i think we should decide that anything that replaces something we know is bad for the environment should be considered greener.
something that can substitute can become a small comparative advantage by lowering the tariffs for what is just a little bit better, so we do something good for the environment.
this is an area where the eu should have more competence and more power to improve the quality of the environment and also the quality of our citizens.
air pollution in europe causes 400 000 deaths per year and the national emissions ceilings directive is a crucial piece of legislation which is meant to tackle this problem by placing appropriate limits on certain key pollutants which cause high levels of damage to public health.
‒ air pollution in the union is one of the biggest health problems we face.
i have long pushed for binding action in this area - here we must continue to work for an ambitious climate policy that puts the well-being of citizens at the centre.
cooperation within the eu is necessary to secure our environment and sweden, but matters relating to funding and military links are matters which should be decided solely by the member states themselves.
cooperation within the eu is necessary to secure our environment and sweden, but matters relating to funding and military links are matters which should be decided solely by the member states themselves.
this is a transboundary environmental issue to prevent the extinction of animals and plants.
the third energy package was designed in order to tear down monopolies, not to allow them.
the whole idea with the energy union is to increase security, to bring us together and to secure our supplies and ensure that we cannot be exposed to political projections from someone who would like to use energy for those means.
it will establish a new architecture for european energy markets.
it will give gazprom a dominant role, and it will undermine the security of a number of european countries – not only their energy security, but also their security in a wider sense.
that is why it is important to hear from the commission about what they are going to do with nord stream 2. we can’t at the same time say that we want to increase unity, cooperation, solidarity, energy union and secure the implementation of our legislation while allowing this to happen to undermine the security of a number of member states in the european union, as well as security in europe.
we urge russia to ensure an open and safe environment for civil society activity and peaceful dissent.
i came in february, we had a debate on an oral question on the sustainable development provisions of the eu—west africa epa and we had a good debate in december on the sadc epa, following which you gave your assent, so that has now entered into force and i thank you for that.
it is now for us and our partners to fully use trade as a tool for growth, sustainable development and employment.
this includes the essential elements and sustainable development objectives, its provisions on labour, environment, democratic principles and human rights.
when i came here in february – i think it was in strasbourg actually – i committed to having sustainable development as a strong element of the implementation of all our epas.
it is true that this bilateral epa with ghana has been negotiated with 2018 in view and it does not contain a sustainable development chapter on top of what we have in the cotonou agreement.
we are committed to engaging in a dialogue on sustainable development in the epa joint committee that will be created by this agreement.
the foreign affairs minister, hanna tetteh, made it clear when she came to the committee on international trade and she said to you – and i spoke to her as well – that they have already started to engage civil society and they are committed to sustainable development at the highest level.
so this provides a solid environment for local and foreign investors, which should not be underestimated because when european investors settle in ghana, they increase the share of formal employment, which ensures more protection for ghanaian workers as well.
'racist', 'xenophobe' and now 'populist' are terms that could have had a clear and distinct meaning in a different social climate.
for example, in agricultural policy, which is too costly and has a negative impact on the environment, the climate and animal husbandry.
the environment in the deep parts of our oceans is ecologically vulnerable.
because the environment is so deep, cold and without light, everything happens there very, very slowly.
therefore, deep sea fishing may be more akin to mining than fishing for a renewable resource.
it is an important step towards protecting the vital marine environment.
this is perhaps the biggest energy bill we have had in european history and it is important from many, many angles.
firstly, to ensure that we can cope with the geopolitical challenges and security threats that energy policy actually poses when we are not able to ensure that our industry and our consumers can be supplied with our own energy, but we are dependent on a third power to ensure that we can cope with the heat of winter, industrial production and low energy prices for our citizens.
at the same time, this energy package also places a major climate challenge.
it always strikes me in the debate, as one of those who advocate renewable energy, that whenever there is an investment in renewable energy, then we have a debate about massive subsidies.
i believe that both will play their part in the european energy market in the foreseeable future.
but it is about making sure that we meet the climate targets we have set, low energy prices so that we can meet energy-intensive industrial production in europe, that we can meet low prices for consumers and that we do so in an environmentally friendly way.
a european energy market must be based on healthy, free and open competition.
it must build on the good conditions for renewable energy, it must ensure that, through the price mechanism, different forms of energy and new types of energy can compete fully and grow and play the role they must be able to play in the future.
a european energy market must also be based on close links between countries, with the development of transmission links between countries, across the baltic sea, in europe, on the continent, in order to create a market.
the commission has a responsibility to maintain european security and security of supply, and you have a responsibility to ensure that no one gains dominance in the european energy market, which is contrary to competition and the opportunity to make this market strong.
the fight against the great common enemy, namely climate change, could in principle be lost with a new president of the united states.
‒ ecuador has long worked with bolivia to develop a new type of trade agreement that favours sustainable development, redistribution and indigenous rights.
‒ ecuador has long worked with bolivia to develop a new type of trade agreement that favours sustainable development, redistribution and indigenous rights.
‒ ecuador has long worked with bolivia to develop a new type of trade agreement that favours sustainable development, redistribution and indigenous rights.
ports shall be able to limit the number of service providers in order to safeguard safety and environmental sustainability.
energy sources of a somewhat controversial nature also need to be revised and examined.
this is particularly the case with regard to the energy union and the forthcoming energy package to be discussed by both the european parliament and the european council.
from my home country of sweden, it is about colleagues in the social democrats, the environment party, the left party and the centre.