the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr langen because the prospect of increasing the income of the large companies which pay little or no tax today is extremely important. i would like to ask mr balz whether there is any way of relieving the burden on small and mediumsized enterprises. because in reality you would have to take the average, and that would actually have to lead to a dramatic relief in taxation for small and mediumsized enterprises.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not as i have just said, one of the central issues in european competition policy is taxation, the tax competition of the 28 member states with each other - and one is tempted to say against each other. the 28 governments are undermining each other's tax base to attract big corporations, and offering zero-comma tax rates to a few big corporations, anything up to a few percent. this can't go on. this is rightly a major point in this report and rightly criticised by most of the groups here and amended. the main task of competition law is to prevent the formation of cartels. why would you do that? because cartels can have influence and can talk to each other. this is precisely what the 28 governments should be doing in tax policy. they should coordinate and try to influence as much as possible together to make smart and cooperative tax policies instead of undercutting each other. we should cooperate, but we should not bet on competition against each other. it is not just about taxing large corporations. it is also about the income base of our countries, our governments, the maintenance of the welfare states, the maintenance of the education system and also the financing of current issues. this is one of the main points in this report, and rightly so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should be pushing for a much bigger say in the future. one more point i would like to make: the digital world, the digital future. the report criticizes google's market power, especially in the area of mobile devices. google was mentioned for the first time in this report last year. this year, several large digital companies are named whose market power is to be examined. i think we should continue this practice next year and then perhaps in these reports also mention by name european companies whose practices we have to criticize.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the present report has succeeded in identifying two key areas of particular political relevance, namely tax and aid law and the digital economy. the rapporteur, mr langen, deserves special thanks for this. the commission notes that the tax exemption for luxopco is not a tax measure, but rather a measure that is intended to ensure that luxopco is able to compete with other companies in the union. it will help to prevent tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning and to achieve greater tax fairness in europe. and you, commissioner, showed it again just last week when you declared the belgian special scheme, which allowed for a massive tax rebate on foreign exchange surpluses of multinational companies, to be unacceptable. prominent names include the largest belgian brewer, the oil company bp and germany's basf. prominent names are among them, and the transaction volume you're reclaiming - the demand - is substantial. two other tests are pending, which come from a second area. digital economy: major changes will have to be made in merger control and antitrust procedures, otherwise the changing market position of digital companies will not be met.
the commission has already done so. the digital economy is a hugely important area for growth and jobs in europe. we are talking about a growth potential of over 400 billion euros and 3.8 million new jobs. the rapporteur is therefore to be thanked in particular for having taken account of this very complex and wide-ranging subject and the many committees involved in this report, and for having produced a very balanced and comprehensive report which is a good basis for us to work on. i would like to make a few points. one of them is the ever-growing rage to regulate, whether it's the liability standard for e-commerce, whether it's geo-blocking, whether it's text and data mining, whether it's ex-ante regulation in telecom, whether it's the media framework for the 21st century or platforms. more regulation is not always better regulation. before we make any new regulations, let us take stock and evaluate. the second area which is very important to me is competition and investment in the expansion of broadband infrastructure. more competition doesn 't always lead to better ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take the liberty of pointing out something new at this late stage in the debate. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. it is not just our rights as consumers that are at stake, but also our rights as citizens. in the case of geo-blocking, the debate about whether european women can see content in any country can be not only an economic issue and not only a consumer protection issue. this is a question of censorship and free speech, whether we can see, read, hear, or anything else, all over europe. we need to be much more the advocates of civil rights on this issue, because the media world has changed. it used to be that you couldn't produce content and then stop people from consuming it. the free speech issue has been focused exclusively on broadcasting. we need to redesign this, because now it's possible for companies to stop people from receiving data. we must have a serious word about this.
in writing. the digital transformation is creating a whole new world of work. this is the biggest change since the industrial revolution. we have to shape this digital revolution and we are doing it. we in the european parliament have clear, distinct positions. the following points are particularly important to me: - workers' rights and social security for all workers must be maintained at the same level in the digital world of work. the existing collective agreements must apply to digital workers in the same way. member states are responsible for ensuring this and, where appropriate, for adapting national labour and social law. we want to prevent work 4.0 from becoming family 4.0. the right to be inaccessible and to rest must apply to every eu citizen. the explosion of atypical employment contracts and precarious working conditions must be avoided, minimum wages (where they exist), rules on participation, health and safety at work must be guaranteed. the protection of employees' data needs to be further developed. the regulation falls short of expectations and the proposals of the employment committee should be taken up, especially in view of the increasing digitalisation. the eu commission and the member states have a lot of ideas for future implementation. finally, we meps want digitalisation to be an opportunity for all who actively shape europe with clear and fair rules.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the waiver of the immunity of mr siekierski. it is important for the integrity and reputation of parliament that immunity from criminal proceedings can be waived in respect of offences committed before the assumption of office.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence is an irregularity unrelated to the member's political activity. therefore, i agree to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence is an irregularity unrelated to the member's political activity. therefore, i agree to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the waiver of the immunity of mr siekierski. it is important for the integrity and reputation of parliament that immunity from criminal proceedings can be waived in respect of offences committed before the assumption of office.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence is an irregularity unrelated to the member's political activity. therefore, i agree to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ the alleged offence is an irregularity unrelated to the member's political activity. therefore, i agree to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from the report on the multiannual recovery plan for atlantic and mediterranean bluefin tuna. it is an important undertaking, but not all technical changes are actually successful.
in writing. ‒ the recovery of tuna stocks is an important concern. the rapporteur agrees that in some cases the commission proposal goes beyond what has been decided by iccat, but also beyond what has been provided for by the eu legislator. however, not all the technical proposals put forward by the rapporteur are effective. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the european union should pay particular attention to traditional tonnage when implementing the recovery plan. this selective rebuilding of tuna stocks supports the vital regeneration of our marine ecosystems. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the recovery of tuna stocks is an important concern. the rapporteur agrees that in some cases the commission proposal goes beyond what has been decided by iccat, but also beyond what has been provided for by the eu legislator. however, not all the technical proposals put forward by the rapporteur are effective. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i believe it is important to ensure strong controls in cartel proceedings and mergers of large companies, increasingly also in the digital sphere. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules, in particular the new rules on the protection of personal data and the new rules on the protection of personal data. i agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it also addresses the urgent challenges facing agriculture. in particular, i fully support the call for binding measures in the food supply chain against retailers who harm farmers and consumers, and the establishment of a european food price observatory to monitor abusive behaviour towards farmers and consumers.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for greater parliamentary participation. i believe that this democratic participation is essential. however, the report also advocates stronger control mechanisms at eu level, leading in the form proposed to further centralisation and the disempowerment of the nation states. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it deals with sensible objectives such as growth and employment. it also deals with the fight against tax evasion and the strict monitoring and control of illegal state aid which distorts competition between member states. the commission and the competition authority have been very successful in enforcing their case in 2014 and have imposed fines for price fixing in the billions.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for greater parliamentary participation. i believe that this democratic participation is essential. however, the report also advocates stronger control mechanisms at eu level, leading in the form proposed to further centralisation and the disempowerment of the nation states. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ europe must preserve its culture and identity, which is why immigrants must commit themselves to integration and adapt to the way of life and social foundations of our coexistence. these principles are non-negotiable and should not be changed in their openness. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ for me, it is of the utmost importance that europe preserves its culture, its identity and its values. these points are non-negotiable for me. the community's values must not be diluted. the rapporteur seems to believe that a change in culture, as a result of the mass immigration that is currently taking place, is a natural process and would even be enriching for our continent. these views are diametrically opposed to my political views, and i therefore reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against this report because it forces european citizens to adapt to migrants and refugees. the report does not, however, call for migrants and refugees to adapt to our culture. the european parliament has also called for the introduction of a european culture in the education of children and for the participation in the celebrations of muslim holidays. the rapporteur, for example, sees mass immigration as a positive factor and fails to recognise the dangers it poses to our values and our culture.
in writing. ‒ for me, it is of the utmost importance that europe preserves its culture, its identity and its values. these points are non-negotiable for me. the community's values must not be diluted. the rapporteur seems to believe that a change in culture, as a result of the mass immigration that is currently taking place, is a natural process and would even be enriching for our continent. these views are diametrically opposed to my political views, and i therefore reject this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is a review of the current financial market regulations, which were adopted with increasing speed during the crisis, without taking into account interactions. i can only agree with the wish for more impact assessments and for the review of interactions.
in writing. ‒ the report is merely an inventory to identify possible interactions and inconsistencies in financial regulation. the report does not contain any concrete legislative proposals to remedy the shortcomings identified. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report says that financial stability and consumer protection must remain the main focus of policymakers. the current legislation must be fully transposed and strictly enforced in the member states. european legislators also need to pay greater attention to interactions with international standards in order to ensure global competitiveness. the report also calls for further improvements in procedures and better accountability of the european supervisory authorities and the european supervisory mechanism in this regard. but since there are still some inconsistencies in the implementation, i have abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the report is merely an inventory to identify possible interactions and inconsistencies in financial regulation. the report does not contain any concrete legislative proposals to remedy the shortcomings identified. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ while it is worthwhile to ensure a better environment for women entrepreneurs, i believe that the goal of more rigorous implementation of gender mainstreaming and parental leave in national law and stricter monitoring by eu agencies is misguided. i also oppose the introduction of mandatory gender quotas.
in writing. ‒ a sound promotion of entrepreneurship is essential for a functioning economy. every company is an asset and creates jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gender pay gap is reduced. the report calls for gender specific support. it is important that there is equality of opportunity. i am firmly opposed to the preference of one sex by means of quotas, as called for in the report, or by means of gender-specific promotion. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the report on external factors that represent hurdles to european female entrepreneurship. it is time for the commission to duly promote programmes and funding opportunities for women in business. the experience shared by the most of the women entering the entrepreneurial sector demonstrates that there is need for coordination and centralisation of information and technical support at the eu level. for this reason i am promoting a european business centre for women working in close cooperation with member states and companies from the private sector, which would function as a focal point to promote the commission’s initiatives for female entrepreneurs, providing management and technical assistance, creating and boosting existing networks, and monitoring and gender-mainstreaming business initiatives and programmes.
in writing. ‒ in my opinion, this is not a case of discrimination a woman has the same opportunities as a man nowadays. women are more likely to take the journey with their families and children, and to make voluntary sacrifices. however, this is not necessarily the way to go. it's quite common for men to go into paternal limbo. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ a sound promotion of entrepreneurship is essential for a functioning economy. every company is an asset and creates jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gender pay gap is reduced. the report calls for gender specific support. it is important that there is equality of opportunity. i am firmly opposed to the preference of one sex by means of quotas, as called for in the report, or by means of gender-specific promotion. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for action to improve the training of young people, the exchange of best practice models, the transfer of skills and competences through innovative and accessible training opportunities, as well as action to give the highest possible priority to education and to ease administrative and financial requirements. i fully support these measures.
in writing. ‒ the report contains a number of good suggestions and legitimate concerns that deserve support. i think it is reasonable to include vocational orientation in the curricula. i also believe that linking training centres with enterprises is a good way of helping to reduce youth unemployment. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is very important to support young people in their choice of career or education. the training courses are a good way for young people to get into the world of work. the employment of young people and training should be among the eu's top political priorities.
in writing. ‒ the report contains a number of good suggestions and legitimate concerns that deserve support. i think it is reasonable to include vocational orientation in the curricula. i also believe that linking training centres with enterprises is a good way of helping to reduce youth unemployment. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the solutions mentioned, which are necessary for the creation of the digital single market, are at the heart of the issue. the report recognises the obstacles and hurdles that businesses and consumers currently face in taking advantage of the benefits of a digital europe and aims to address them by the most flexible means possible without major regulatory complications. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ some of the points proposed, such as strengthening legal certainty, i consider to be reasonable and necessary. but unfortunately, the report leaves many questions open. for example, the question of funding. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ geoblocking is not only a consumer protection issue, but also a freedom of expression issue. unjustified practices of geoblocking, such as discrimination against consumers on the basis of their ip address, postal address or country of issuance of the credit card, must be eliminated as soon as possible. access to goods and services for consumers must be improved. unfortunately, the right approaches are lacking to enable us to approve the report in this form, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ some of the points proposed, such as strengthening legal certainty, i consider to be reasonable and necessary. but unfortunately, the report leaves many questions open. for example, the question of funding. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! the december summit has at least once brought a clear self-criticism from governments that crisis management in the refugee issue is not working. now, i'd say that insight would be the first step to improvement. but what we are seeing today -- a month and a day later -- is that this crisis management in the refugee issue is still not working, and it is a catastrophic picture. the reception centres, the so-called hotspots, are still not functioning. the distribution of asylum seekers is still not working. 160 000 were planned 290 have been planned so far. this is not at all conducive to the people's belief that we can work together in the european union to find solutions. mr tusk, president-in-office of the council, i agree with mr verhofstadt that the next summit should be one where you can finally say to the members of the council: we are europe together. it is not brussels that is europe, but each and every government, each and every member state, and only together can we solve this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a step backwards on the part of the national government. i have to criticize my own country and the austrian federal government. now suddenly the foreign minister is saying - and he is playing a cynical game with the refugees - that the more borders, the more pressure on greece, the sooner there will be a european solution. that's cynical. we need common solutions at european level and that is what the next summit should do, mr tusk. brexit can wait and hopefully will wait.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure to beatrix von storch. mrs von storch, you know very well that this question about numbers doesn't work. how would you do that if you were in a government - which i hope will never happen - and then say: "ok, germany will take in one million migrants and then you will send the german army to this one millionth migrant and give the order to shoot, or what?" it doesn't work with the ceilings!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i think it is crucial to also work out what the strategy is in the refugee crisis between spain and greece. we should not be making blanket judgments, but we should be looking at where the law is being respected and where european law is being enforced. could you just cut to the chase?
in writing. with her statement we can do this, the german chancellor has triggered a mass storm to germany, austria and sweden, i.e. to those countries with the highest monetary incentives for asylum seekers and economic migrants, who represent the largest group of immigrants at 60%. the result was 1.1 million registered asylum seekers in germany and 90 000 in austria in 2015, numbers unknown. according to the eu commission, an additional three million asylum seekers are expected by the end of 2016, not including the family additions. such a mass upsurge would present the states concerned with almost insurmountable problems. education, social and health systems are overstretched, as are the legal system and, consequently, the national budget. it is doubtful whether such a large number of people have the capacity to integrate. sweden has therefore already closed its borders and austria has introduced an upper limit. only germany continues its culture of welcome. the eu must finally act and protect the external borders effectively. this task, which should be a core eu competence, cannot be delegated to turkey. if the eu's external borders cannot be protected effectively and sustainably, then member states will have no choice but to take national measures - a fact that was given little attention at the december council.
mr president, madam prime minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i welcome the fact that this debate is being held today, that it is being held on time and that it is being held in a differentiated and objective manner. it is not a question of prejudging poland. we do not want poland to be bashed. poland is a major country that has shaped european history and identity. the people of poland have probably made the most substantial contribution to the overthrow of the communist dictatorship. europe without poland would be a torso. that's why it doesn't matter what happens in poland. we respect the vote of the polish people, but we are concerned that the first measures of the new government have caused fear among large sections of the population. the principle of democracy is the transfer of power. it must not lead to a change in the rules which makes it impossible to do so in the future. many people in poland have this fear. the government's actions in the judicial and media sectors have fuelled this fear. respect for the inferior, for minorities, is also a principle of democracy. there are also many complaints and complaints in this direction. poland has given us the institution of the round table. i would also like to remind the government that dialogue is an important value. it is important and positive that we have this debate here to clarify the situation, and that there is also an opportunity to put unambiguous actions. the debate should be open and direct, fair and objective. then poland wins and then europe wins.
i have to say, madam president, the events in syria are a terrible tragedy. hundreds of thousands of people have died, landscapes have been destroyed, half the population has lost its livelihood, almost five million have fled abroad, we all know these figures. the neighbouring regions are facing unimaginable pressures, and the wave of refugees is also becoming a test for the european union. a swift end to the syrian war is more necessary than ever. we all long for that day. the un resolution is for many the famous light at the end of the tunnel, because it brings all the parties to the conflict to the table for the first time. i think there's a good reason to hope that something will change. i would also like to thank the high representative very specifically for her efforts in this direction, which she has often made in the background. as we all look forward to the next few weeks, the war continues. people are dying, some are starving, people are fleeing from the bombs that are supposed to end the war and from the regime's barrel bombs. and daesh is still not defeated. it is not enough to hope for a great miracle, but we must at last keep our promises in parallel. we need safe areas where people can return. most people want that. i saw it myself in kobane, every day thousands of people wanting to return, even though everything is destroyed. many people will not experience peace because they are starving. the most humane form of bombing is the raisin bomb. there are still many political prisoners. we need these people to build democracy, including the internet activist bassel khartabil, a first-time democrat. we don't know if he's still alive. and we should also consider putting a new marshall plan in place for the region. this is the basis for people to return.
i have to say, madam president, we have rightly complained repeatedly that our decisions and declarations of intent by the international community are being implemented very slowly. the syrian peace process unfortunately falls into this category. because you just spoke of the good news you have received in connection with colombia, i now have bad news. there are arguments - the new york times is reporting this evening - about who should sit at the opposition table on monday and whether the meeting will even take place. dozens of syrians are dying every day because we all want peace, but we are only going at a crawling pace. the last sad example is the aid measures for the town of madaya, which have been mentioned several times. they came when people were starving. the peace process is difficult, of course. but as in the nuclear negotiations with iran, europe must be even more involved. not just for the refugees, but for the people who are still there, still alive! and i 'm afraid we switch to english now: maybe you should start working the phones and get all this people together right away
i have to say, madam president, the conflict between saudi arabia and iran is in danger of entering a hot phase. already there are proxy wars in syria and yemen. an armed conflict would bring the whole region to the brink of collapse. this would have unimaginable implications for europe as well. that's why no one can be interested in seeing this happen. i welcome the fact that iran has finally returned to the international community after the conclusion of the nuclear negotiations. it is important that in such a fragile region, states act and not stateless actors and not failed states. no one can be interested in destabilization. two points in a nutshell: any activity aimed at destabilising the region by supporting actors like daesh is dangerous and we must not spread the cloak of silence about it. secondly, stability is not achieved through repression, stability is achieved in the long term through democracy and the rule of law. the election in iran will show whether the country is on the right track. unfortunately, saudi arabia is still far from these developments. the recent events have also clearly proved this to us. we can't decide where saudi arabia goes, but we can control it by finally limiting our arms shipments to saudi arabia.
i have to say, madam president, i believe that the aim is also to achieve economic effects through harmonization and to regulate market access accordingly, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. it is therefore clear that the cable car regulation will play a major role here, because of course it is very much used in tourism, but it will also be of great importance in the future for smart cities. in particular, in the case of smart cities, you will see that the cable cars naturally produce very little noise, very little particulate matter, so that even over bridges, over the corresponding obstacles, the cable car can be used well. it is clear that the uniform level of safety can also reduce road accidents and that the free movement of goods clearly shows that europe can benefit greatly from the internal market and that this can of course also create new additional jobs, because this high european safety culture is of course also an export hit. our cable car manufacturers have already worked in markets around the world, making a major contribution to life and safety. billions of dollars are being made in this business. stoa, the science and technology options assessment committee of the european parliament, has considered cable cars to be important for sustainable transport and mobility in the studies. this sustainability, together with e-mobility, will play a much greater role in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my predecessor, nigel farage, and i are not in the same group, but i can say one thing: he is right, of course. the european union has reached a negative culmination of all its developments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe has never functioned as badly as it does today. the three groups in the house that are critical of the eu are right, of course: the efdd, the enf and the ecr. all the critical voices that are being raised here are voices of the concerns and fears of citizens across europe. we had a europe that worked. a europe of sovereign states, which has entered into a good future here on equal footing with each other in friendship. but it was only after the path of centralisation that europe took a negative turn - it was the beginning of the quarrels and hatreds in europe. i am only saying as a hint: poland, hungary, denmark, the procedure which is now being opened. i do not want to mention the many negative voices of southern europe towards germany and austria in the wake of the whole currency crisis. this is not a europe that can work. this is not a europe of friendship and a positive future. this is a europe of the reed and the cord. we should correct all the negative developments in the field of currency. i have nothing against a common currency if it works. the euro does not work. the euro destroys wealth, the euro destroys purchasing power and therefore the euro should be split, perhaps into two zones or return to national currencies. it worked. the schengen question is also a matter of concern. i wouldn't mind if we could keep the borders open. the fact is, it doesn't work. organized crime is making inroads into the countries of western europe. we have a wave of refugees and a wave of illegal migrants, with terrorism coming to europe. the schengen agreement is not a new one. of course, britain has the right to hold a referendum now. i am saying that all member states should vote, because europe cannot function if it does not reach the hearts and minds of the people again, but on the contrary, if it is increasingly drifting apart.
mr president, tax fraud by multinationals on a grand scale, social dumping and refugees being treated beyond all principles of fundamental rights: those are the challenges of your presidency right now, and all those problems cannot be solved at national level – not in the netherlands, not in austria, not in poland. you said you were born in 1967, being part of an optimistic generation, so use your time in the presidency to work on the willingness of member states to ensure they do not act selfishly, narrow-mindedly and trying to find solutions at national level. it is absolutely strange to find solutions at national level concerning the refugee crisis. we have to do that all together, and it is your responsibility right now to take this chance again and repeat it to work against tax fraud, social dumping and those national refugee crisis solutions.
in writing. ‒ for reasons of data protection and reservations, i abstain from this proposal.
in writing. ‒ in principle, there are no objections to the exchange of vehicle registration data with latvia. however, the relevant data protection provisions must be respected. the report does not make it clear whether this can be guaranteed. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the report contains gaps and the procedure still has uncertainties regarding crossborder cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. the commission has not provided sufficient clarity on how the decision is to be implemented.
in writing. ‒ in principle, there are no objections to the exchange of vehicle registration data with latvia. however, the relevant data protection provisions must be respected. the report does not make it clear whether this can be guaranteed. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ in principle, these are criminal justice mechanisms that should be applied in all member states. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european centre for the development of vocational training. i am also critical of the attempt to pave the way for a european public prosecutor. i shall abstain from voting on these grounds.
in writing. ‒ criminal law is a national matter and does not require european harmonisation. the proposal also risks creating further difficulties in the prosecution of criminal offences. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ this report risks making it even more difficult to prosecute potential offenders. i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ criminal law is a national matter and does not require european harmonisation. the proposal also risks creating further difficulties in the prosecution of criminal offences. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. - i'll hold off on my voice. the intention of the proposal is good, but the practical benefits, for example in the case of pot lids, are only partially discernible. the marginal gains in consumer protection are accompanied by an increase in bureaucracy.
in writing. ‒ the practical use of the proposed measures is limited. the marginal gains in consumer protection are countered by further bureaucratization. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ european employers are obliged to provide the necessary personal protective equipment (ppe) to their employees. in winter, these are shoes with a correspondingly slip-resistant sole. the ppe directive also allows the free movement of personal protective equipment. unfortunately, in recent years, some counterfeit or unsafe helmets and life jackets have entered the european market. i do not see in the report any attempt to tighten the directive in the light of the cases mentioned above. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the practical use of the proposed measures is limited. the marginal gains in consumer protection are countered by further bureaucratization. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. - i'll hold off on my voice. while the proposals could help to improve export opportunities, there is also the risk of a financial burden on the citizen in terms of co2 reduction and safety gains.
in writing. ‒ on the one hand, a regulation brings more clarity and security to the production and use of gas-consuming equipment, but it also further restricts national competences. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report supports the conversion of the existing gas appliances directive into a regulation, arguing that a better legal framework is needed. but this also leads to a further curtailment of national competences, which is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ on the one hand, a regulation brings more clarity and security to the production and use of gas-consuming equipment, but it also further restricts national competences. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the measures in this report are creating major safety gains in the cableway sector. i therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ europe-wide safety standards for cable cars should be promoted to prevent potential accidents. in addition, the vo has been relaxed in some respects in order not to place an undue burden on operators and manufacturers of small lifting systems. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that pan-european safety standards for cable cars should be encouraged in order to prevent possible accidents. the commission has also proposed that operators and manufacturers of lifts of smaller sizes should not be subject to excessive requirements, without however compromising the safety of the persons being transported.
in writing. ‒ europe-wide safety standards for cable cars should be promoted to prevent potential accidents. in addition, the vo has been relaxed in some respects in order not to place an undue burden on operators and manufacturers of small lifting systems. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. - i vote against the motion. he is disproportionately interfering with the internal structure and legal system of kyrgyzstan.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. it notes that the commission delegated acts concerned do not provide for sufficient measures to prevent childhood and infant obesity and that the mrl for sugars should be lowered in line with the existing who recommendations. given the endocrine sensitivity of infants and young children, a zero tolerance for pesticides should also be established as a general standard. i agree with the request to withdraw the corresponding delegated acts for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ parents should be given the freedom to choose the food they eat for their children. in the case of a mother's occupational activity or her inability to work due to illness, it is essential to substitute cereal-based milk for breast-feeding. furthermore, there is no need for additional warnings. for these reasons i voted against the objection to the delegated act on cereal-based foods.
in writing. ‒ the protection of infants and children in the food sector is a very important issue. parents must be able to see clearly what ingredients are in the food and be able to trust the products. the ban on gmos and nanotechnology in cereal-based foods is very welcome. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ i support this report because the quality of baby food is particularly important and children should not be accustomed to too sweet food too early. the eu commission wanted to allow up to three times the amount of sugar recommended by the who. add to this false promises by manufacturers to suggest healthy and age-appropriate diets by putting pictures of fruits and whole grains on product packaging, thus obscuring the actual contents. high-sugar foods can cause tooth decay, unhealthy eating habits, and obesity.
in writing. ‒ the protection of infants and children in the food sector is a very important issue. parents must be able to see clearly what ingredients are in the food and be able to trust the products. the ban on gmos and nanotechnology in cereal-based foods is very welcome. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. - i vote for the joint resolution. i am particularly concerned about supporting the peace process in colombia, given the many civilian casualties, and the eu should do everything in its power to promote this process.
in writing. ‒ violence is not a political tool and all efforts to promote the peace process in colombia in a sustainable and efficient manner must be supported. the report is coherent and addresses specific points which can help to resolve the conflict satisfactorily.
in writing. ‒ violence is not a political tool and all efforts to promote the peace process in colombia in a sustainable and efficient manner must be supported. the report is coherent and addresses specific points which can help to resolve the conflict satisfactorily.
i also ask that interviews not be conducted in the chamber but outside. i would like to ask to have interviews taken outside of the hall and not inside. thank you very much. the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the humanitarian situation in yemen (2016/2515 ((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, so much suffering and so little effort to alleviate that suffering. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. 6,000 people have already lost their lives, and more are dying every day. six and a half million people are starving. there's hardly any clean water, hardly any electricity. this is yemen today. it is therefore urgent that peace negotiations be opened as soon as possible. at the same time, it cannot be stressed enough how important it is that humanitarian aid organisations can carry out their vital work in this conflict region without hindrance. we, the european union, must support the united nations in bringing about a lasting ceasefire and subsequent peace negotiations, but we cannot at the same time, as arms exporters, supply additional ammunition for an already explosive situation. only a broad political consensus, bringing all parties to the table, can resolve this conflict. the hard-won gains which should have put this country back on its feet economically are turned into piles of rubble after the bombing - from whatever side - has been carried out. the chaos and bloody conflicts in that country are again benefiting the fighters of al-qaeda or daesh, with direct repercussions for europe. after all, one of the terrorists who attacked paris is said to have visited a terrorist camp in yemen.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply. the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the next partsession, not tomorrow. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in south-eastern turkey (2016/2530 ((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, turkey is a candidate country and we have revived the negotiations. this status also allows us to ask critical questions. critical issues on the situation of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the developments in turkey in recent weeks are extremely worrying and are linked to the kurdish question. the present government believes it can solve these problems by force and that it has a free hand. after years of talks and rapprochement, we are again in a state of civil war. that can't be in our best interest. i would ask you, commissioner, to point out to the turkish side that this is not in our mutual interest. it is important that europe appeals to both sides to stop fighting immediately and to offer itself as a mediator. the example could be the peace agreement in northern ireland, where all parties to the conflict were brought to the table - including those who were then considered terrorists.
rapporteur.– madam president, as vice-president of this parliament in charge of the sakharov prize network i would like to start before going into details of the saa with commemorating the sakharov prize laureate from 1998, ibrahim rugova, who died just 10 years ago on 23 january 2006. he is still the symbol of kosovo independence, a symbol of nonviolent struggle, a great poet and leader of kosovo-albanians whom i would like to commemorate here at the start of this debate. i now come to the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement (saa). it was negotiated between october 2013 and may 2014; it was initialled in july 2014; the council agreed to its signature on 22 october 2015 and then it was signed here in strasbourg on 27 october by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy federica mogherini and by commissioner johannes hahn, on behalf of the eu, and also by the republic of kosovo’s prime minister isa mustafa and the minister for european integration bekim çollaku. the kosovo assembly ratified it on 2 november 2015. now it is up to us here tomorrow to vote for this stabilisation and association agreement of the european union with kosovo and afterwards it can enter into force. this is a historic moment for kosovo because for the first time the eu and kosovo will have contractual relations. it is the first official formal step on the way to full eu integration and to becoming a member of the european union. yes, it has taken some time because of kosovo being a new country, its independence was just eight years ago, and in the council too it took some time, but let me express my welcome for the fact that the five member states who still have not recognised kosovo have also given their consent. this is a big step forward and i would just like to urge them to move forward on that and go on to recognise kosovo. some of these countries have ministers visiting kosovo, meeting with government officials, so please just go ahead and recognise kosovo, this youngest republic in the european union. i can tell you that it does not hurt. it would just help people. so what is this saa about? as i said, it introduces contractual relations for the first time. it provides for enhanced political dialogue, trade integration and new forms of cooperation. it covers numerous sectors, be they strengthening of democratic principles or human rights, but also a framework for cooperation on sectors such as education, energy, environment, justice and home affairs and many more. it also sets out rights and obligations and it provides a powerful incentive for the implementation and institutionalisation of reforms, because kosovo still needs reforms and there the government has to move on. it also creates opportunities for investment but at the same time good governance is required through the application of european standards and approximation to european union laws. furthermore it creates great opportunities for enhancing contacts between people, between experts, between citizens, in sectors such as education, environment and culture, but also of course on combating crime and trafficking, and it foresees further strengthening of relations and cooperation with neighbouring countries, thus contributing also to stability in the region. but of course this exchange between people, between citizens, also needs both kosovo and the european union to move ahead with visa liberalisation. kosovo is the only country in the region where citizens still cannot travel freely. they feel locked in. so this saa is a very important step but visa liberalisation has to come. the best would be now in the next couple of months.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is no secret that the majority of our citizens see the greatest threat to europe at the moment in militant islam. if we were to take these fears of the population seriously, then kosovo's eu course would probably not be an option either. but that is precisely the course our report is pursuing. and this despite the fact that today the swiss newspaper blick asked the question: will kosovo become the first islamic state in europe? other this article points out that the saudis are financing most of the mosques there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for the kingdom of saudi arabia, kosovo would be the perfect trojan horse in the union. you don't have to be a psychic or a cassandra to see this danger clearly. i therefore regard association or even membership as unrealistic and extremely dangerous.
rapporteur.– madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you all – even those who are for not recognising countries – for your support for this report on the stabilisation and association agreement. this is a very important step, as i have already said. i just want to refer to one of the non-supporters from gue. i need to correct him, because more than half of the un member states (111) have already recognised kosovo. so it would be high time for kosovo to become a member of the united nations and its organisations. since all of the arguments have been exchanged now, i would like to end with two things. i would like to go back to commemoration of ibrahim rugova that i started with this evening, because he is a strong symbol of non-violent struggle. i would like to use that in order to urge the opposition parties in the kosovo assembly to follow rugova’s example and to return to work in the assembly that they were elected to and not keep blocking the parliament’s work, because violence should not have a place in this youngest republic’s parliament – in the parliament of this youngest republic on this european continent. and now to finalise, let me just mention something very different, which is very positive news for kosovo. last thursday, a kosovo short film – the first ever produced in kosovo – was nominated for the academy awards for the best live action short film. it is called shock. it is about friends. it is about two boys living during the war, which has already been over for a long time. i would really love to see this kosovo film awarded an oscar for best short film on 28 february 2016. it would be a great boon for this young country. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we have already discussed daesh many times in this house, this culture of death, which is not sacred. daesh is fighting everything that does not conform to its rigid postulates, radically and totally: infidels, shiites, sunnis, alevis, christians and yazidis. in two resolutions this house has already dealt with this, with yazidi women and with assyrian christians. just today we learned that daesh has razed to the ground a 1,400-year-old monastery, st. elias, near mosul. we must continue this fight, consistently and uncompromisingly. we must work out the causes and background, because we must create conditions under which democracy, religious freedom, human rights are possible again in the future. we must start now, we must start the work of reconciliation, to lay the foundations for future development. but above all, we must support those people who are still held hostage by the terrorists: hundreds of christians, thousands of yazidi women. they suffer and they are treated like commodities, they are a source of revenue for daesh. yazidi women are also sold to countries with which we have economic relations, such as saudi arabia. a ransom of $25 million is being demanded for the assyrian christians, and it is to be paid through banks that .... (the president withdraws the speaker.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we are now hearing about the atrocities of the islamic state almost every day, and we are discussing this for i do not know how many times already. all i can say is: the terrorists are laughing their asses off at the discussions we have here. we are discussing this without really having anything in hand, without really being able to help the people who would need help on the ground. just a few days ago, 300 people were killed in deir ez-zor. but murder is not the only agenda of these terrorists. systematic rape and enslavement of people are also part of their reign of terror. and it is particularly hard on - and this is the issue - non-believers who are exposed to this terror without protection. mosul, for example, a city with a 1,600-year-old christian tradition, has been christian-free since 2014. they're bragging about it in the community. this has been done by killing and expelling the local christians. let us not be deceived, dear colleagues: the is will not stop before europe either. it has not stopped with europe either, as the past year has shown us. his stated goal is to make the west free of christianity. we must oppose this mass murder and genocide with all our strength. words alone will not do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a fundamental question as to how i may interpret you in future, with all due respect for your otherwise very good presidency. you said just now - and i remember this - that every group will be taken into account. i do not see anyone from my group here who has spoken. you also have the problem of a non-party member speaking. i do not understand why you would announce something which you, as president of the sitting, would not agree to. i would ask you to continue to apply your traditional, very correct business practice and to keep an eye on whether anyone has spoken. otherwise, they can't understand what you're saying.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to join in on many things. it is particularly important that we discuss and address these mass killings of christians and yazidis and the crimes of isis today. unfortunately, there is a lot of talk and that is not enough. we must also remember that the attacks on the population concerned, on this religious group, unfortunately continue in our host countries too, and that there is a need for special solidarity on the part of the host countries. it is, and it has been said today, genocide. it is also clear that europe is called upon to take responsibility for those countries which tolerate, promote or ignore this. i think of saudi arabia, i think of the emirates, who have obviously been watching for a long time and may still be watching. we cannot allow ourselves to be ridiculed in europe. we need to put some activity in here. the west must stand with the oppressed and especially with our christian brothers.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not as an austrian, i am proud of the armed neutrality of my country. like the majority of my countrymen, i have no sympathy when the actions of our leaders, whether red or black, gradually erode our military independence. the eu treaty's obligation to provide assistance makes austria indirectly a nato member on the basis of the strategic partnership existing since 2003 , without any voting rights, but with support obligations. it is no wonder that austria is now almost a natural part of the so-called eu battlegroup. so much for the analysis of the situation assessment. solidarity, however, while respecting national characteristics, is, in my view, a foundation for europe in this situation of threat. but this duty of assistance must not lead to a military partnership through the back door. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. these terrorist attacks are becoming more frequent, more threatening, more audacious and they are effective because they destabilize the foundations of our liberal order and because they also endanger the very existence of this union. the fight against this terrorist threat is necessary and important and deserves our full attention. but this terrorist threat has a name: da'esh-is. we should talk about it. we should not misuse this discussion for polemics. many people also have the impression that much is said, but little is done. in this house we have decided on two measures and we have had a very heated debate on them. one was the report on de-radicalisation, the other the eu-pnr. i still have doubts whether this will actually lead to a bigger information heap, but we have decided to take these measures. what we need now is short-term action. we should consider whether this data is really well analysed, whether it is well processed. we need more and better trained police personnel. we should also ask ourselves why the national intelligence services are still withholding their information, why they are not cooperating with each other. i know we cannot commit you, commissioner, but perhaps you can think of ways of getting the intelligence services to share their knowledge, which they have in abundance. i think that would be the most important thing for us to achieve success in the near future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. these agreements with australia and new zealand must not be an end in themselves, but rather a means to an end. this means that they must have benefits for the citizens. we expect economic growth and, with it, an increase in jobs. it is particularly important to us that european standards are not lowered, as is the preservation and protection of public services. but also that intellectual property and geographical indications, and above all the agricultural sector, be protected as one of the most sensitive areas. compliance with labour, social and environmental standards is our top priority. we're not willing to compromise here. that is why we are also calling for an ambitious sustainability chapter. as with all agreements, we are strongly committed to the transparency of the negotiations and the involvement of civil society.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the annual report of the committee on petitions is very encouraging in its report on the successful work of members of the committee. let me ask you a few questions about this report. the so-called wave reform linked to the secretariat-general of the european parliament is intended to guarantee a rapid response and transparent processing of thousands of petitions in the interests of citizens. is the role of internal rapporteur to be used to ensure greater efficiency in the work of the committee? should the importance and essential role of the european court of justice be explicitly emphasised? should the commission's role as guardian of the treaties and the proper administration of the eu institutions be emphasised? and should it be prevented from being misused for political propaganda, especially before elections? i think you'll be more likely to spontaneously say yes. i therefore find it completely incomprehensible that the rapporteur has not shown any cooperation, has not even sought to speak to me as the epp shadow rapporteur. i would like to thank the rapporteur for not preventing the coordinators of the political groups from making some very welcome progress so that we can have a meaningful vote today. i believe that we must safeguard the interests of the citizens; that is our task. i would appeal to everyone in the house to respond to this mandate of the people by voting yes to the amendments which are being put to the vote today, in particular those which i have just mentioned. the rapporteur also approved the report last year by a majority.
in writing. ‒ we liberal people have always opposed kosovo's independence, since it is not possible to achieve a large degree of autonomy in the north of the country, where the serb minority is dominant. an unstable foreign body has formed in a region of high voltage. i am therefore equally opposed to further integration of kosovo.
in writing. ‒ kosovo was made albanian by artificial colonization. until the serb minority in the north of the country is granted a large degree of autonomy, kosovo cannot be supported for integration. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. as long as the serb minority in the north of the country is not granted a large degree of autonomy, i do not think that kosovo can be supported in its integration.
in writing. ‒ kosovo was made albanian by artificial colonization. until the serb minority in the north of the country is granted a large degree of autonomy, kosovo cannot be supported for integration. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ although i am not convinced of the purpose of setting up a committee of inquiry on emission measurements, i agree with the nominated members.
in writing. ‒ there are no objections to the proposed members. that is why i support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ there are no objections to the proposed members. that is why i support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this resolution. a forced feeding to the eu has triggered the chaos in ukraine, which ended with the secession of crimea. now other countries with similar territorial problems, such as moldova with transnistria and georgia with abkhazia, are set to follow a similar path at a time when european-russian relations are at a new low. i think that this approach is far from being responsible and effective.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this resolution. it is against austria's neutrality principle, such as the call for greater involvement of the eu and its member states' troops in military operations. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to combat terrorism in all its forms.
in writing. ‒ the present resolution is not compatible with the austrian principle of neutrality. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the resolution contradicts austria's neutrality mandate, for example by calling for greater involvement of the eu and its troops in military operations. i therefore voted against.
in writing. ‒ the present resolution is not compatible with the austrian principle of neutrality. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is nothing more than a catalogue of demands, strongly ideologically incensed, which, instead of analysing, makes value judgments. it also provides for the extension of european involvement as a last resort. this is contrary to my views in many respects, which is why i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ the catalogue of demands contains ideological assessments that contradict my views. i am opposed to the expansion of european influence in national affairs and to further patronage. that is why i am voting against this motion.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against this report because its content is based on very strong ideological assessments which are in contradiction with the majority of my views. the report calls for facilities such as humanitarian corridors and visas for all refugees.
in writing. ‒ the catalogue of demands contains ideological assessments that contradict my views. i am opposed to the expansion of european influence in national affairs and to further patronage. that is why i am voting against this motion.
in writing. ‒ this is a very good text, which calls for greater involvement of citizens and for the commission to take into account the concerns expressed by the public on controversial issues. if we want to get rid of the impression that europe is just an elite project, we need to strengthen the work of the committee on petitions, which is why i am voting for this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for greater involvement of citizens. the commission is also invited to take seriously and to take account of the concerns often expressed, especially with regard to ttip. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is critical of ttip. the report contains very good ideas and calls for greater involvement of citizens in the negotiations. the commission is urged to take account of the concerns often expressed about ttip.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for greater involvement of citizens. the commission is also invited to take seriously and to take account of the concerns often expressed, especially with regard to ttip. i therefore support this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission is not prepared to do that. weakening global economic growth, turmoil in the chinese stock market and a sharp drop in oil prices are causing great uncertainty internationally. in the eurozone too, there is uncertainty not only because of this global volatility, but uncertainty about the impact of the monetary policy of the european central bank, uncertainty about the impact of the huge bond buying programme in the framework of quantitative easing, which has not led to a relevant increase in the inflation rate or to a stimulation of the economy. inflation remains low, at 0.4% in january this year, close to zero. good for consumers and purchasing power in the short term, but difficult in the long term. the private sector is also not lending much. in december, banks gave only 0.3% more loans to businesses and 1.4% more loans to households, which is disappointing! since march last year, the ecb has been pumping 60 billion euros a month into the economy by march 2017, by the end of the programme, it will be 1.5 trillion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the interlinking of monetary and fiscal policies is increasing, and there is increasing pressure on the ecb to keep interest rates low and to continue buying government bonds. at the same time, the pressure on member states to implement structural reforms is decreasing. but without structural reforms, budgetary consolidation and public investment, there will be no growth and no jobs in europe! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am of the opinion that the democratic rights of each member state, or of any state in general, should be respected, and i am also of the opinion that it would have been more sensible not to introduce a european currency, a single european currency, without further unification. since there cannot be and will not be any at the moment, it is probably very doubtful whether this currency will lead to success. not as it stands now.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr caspary, my question is that, of course, trade in services on the one hand brings higher wages and thus increases purchasing power. if we buy cheaply, our farms will become more competitive. my question is: is it really important for the employment effect in europe that we conclude such contracts, and can small and mediumsized enterprises also benefit from this?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the report does indeed contain many promises: better protection of public services, consumer protection standards and workers' rights. but with ttip, many citizens no longer believe that. and i think that the commission feels that this report confirms its position. the commission has been promising for years that our european standards will be protected. i'm just thinking about our privacy policy. the report also calls for the opening of tisa to even more contracting parties, specifically china, and for the free movement of its professionals. if we consider that china has about 6.4 million university graduates in 2013, i wonder if the institutions of the union have given this a little thought. finally, i have no confidence in this so-called trade liberalization, especially when i consider that the rapporteur has close relations with relevant companies such as aqua or bertelsmann. and for these companies, the tisa agreement will certainly not be a disadvantage.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. highly subsidised cheap chinese steel, which floods the european market directly or via imports from third countries, is partly responsible for the current steel crisis in europe, which is leading to production relocations and ultimately the loss of thousands of jobs. the commission established the volume of imports on the basis of the data provided by the sampled union producers. in august last year, imports of cold-rolled flat steel products from china and taiwan were subject to penalties of up to 25% and of all anti-dumping proceedings initiated in recent years, 44% or almost half of them concern china. despite this background, china is now demanding the automatic granting of market economy status by the wto as of 11 december this year. this automatic allocation would make it much more difficult for european companies to insist on fair conditions of competition. the economic consequences would be massive, not just for the key industries in europe, which are already struggling with high labour and energy costs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this requires a comprehensive impact assessment and concerted action by all economies. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner. basically, i think we all believe that it is too early for china to achieve market economy status. it has so far fulfilled only one of the five criteria for market economy status. the immediate impact on european industry in the sectors currently protected by anti-dumping measures is a cause for concern. a careful study and impact assessment is required to determine the magnitude of the economic impact. the steel, paper, ceramic, glass and aluminium industries are particularly at risk. we must not allow a flood of cheap products. we want fair competition with fair rules between european and chinese companies. if china is to achieve market economy status, we need modern trade defence instruments against subsidised chinese goods. the council is hereby called upon to lift its blockade.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. just two messages: first, we have to be serious about promoting biodiversity. secondly, there is a very clear commitment from this european parliament - and this will be confirmed in the vote tomorrow - that we do not need to revise these two nature conservation directives. we believe, and the examples show, very clearly, that where these conservation policies are properly implemented, where they are properly implemented, they produce sustainability in biodiversity. that is to say, opening up everything, changing everything would lead to uncertainty and a negative effect. we are calling for a clear answer, commissioner: we need life organic , we need diversity and we need diversity, but we certainly do not need to revise it. we need your support, the commission's support, in implementing it in many member states and, above all, in monitoring it. that's the big problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. this is where we ask for real hard work. biology is life, diversity is diversity, we're losing 150 species every day on this planet. this is something we experience in connection with the quality of our soil, with the quality of our water, with the quality of our eco-services. let us try together to make clear in the member states the need to implement these directives. the population - all eurobarometer surveys show this - is in favour of biodiversity. we just have to fill them with life. we do not need to go around and simplify things, because that will only create uncertainty and actually make the situation worse. together we can achieve our 2020 targets with confidence.
i have to say, madam president, the loss of biodiversity is not only a loss of nature but also of ecological wealth. this house is very rarely so united when it comes to more diversity and more ecology in our nature as well. the biodiversity strategy 2020 with its six pillars is certainly providing the right impetus. but i think we can all agree that there is still a lot of effective work to be done across europe to achieve these goals in the end. i therefore welcome, above all, the better implementation of the existing directive. a revision - and i am very glad that the majority of the house is in favour of this - should not be debated at all, because in the long run it is simply not worth it. a fundamental problem - and i think we need to focus on this much more - is that farmers are not being involved enough when it comes to the designation of natura 2000 sites, for example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we must look at how we can involve these farmers more and, above all, how we can support them more or less to do more for biodiversity and diversity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is particularly important to me that letterbox companies fall under the jurisdiction of the platform to combat black labour. why would you do that? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are not excluded from the scope of the directive. the same goes for tax evasion, of course. black labour is a scandal - not only traditional black labour, but also the various forms of new selfemployment, because behind these forms of new selfemployment, one-person companies often, there are no other forms to avoid the application of labour law, social standards. and this is, of course, a scandal that this platform to combat undeclared work is supposed to combat. i am also particularly concerned that the platform to combat undeclared work exists, to build trust, to build trust in labour inspectorates across the various borders, to know what is really going wrong in each country. i am therefore naturally very much looking forward to the first reports we will receive and to the development of guidelines for the enforcement and control authorities of the member states. and at the end of this long road i hope that there will be something like a european labour inspectorate.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: google's parent company alphabet is currently the most valuable company in the world with a market capitalization of 550 billion dollars. at the same time, the italian authorities suspect that this company evaded taxes amounting to eur 227 million between 2009 and 2013. and just recently, there was a settlement by google with the british government, where they paid 170 million euros in back taxes. google, like other companies, uses tax saving models in various european countries. in the wake of the luxleaks affair, this has entered the public consciousness. according to a study commissioned by the european parliament for the taxe special committee, the eu is missing out on up to €190 billion each year through profit shifting, special tax schemes, inefficient tax collection and similar practices. the eu and its member states can no longer afford to do that. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax fraud, including the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits. the commission's proposed approach in this matter, namely fair tax competition, is based on three central pillars. this is the first step towards ensuring effective taxation in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is not imposed on the transport of goods. the commission is now following up with the directive on combating tax avoidance. the first is that profits should be taxed where they are made. a second point is more tax transparency. parliament has already taken action on this: the ferber report, automatic exchange of information, and the commission is now proposing to revise the directive on cooperation between administrative authorities. this is an important step. it is also important that country-by-country reporting is coming, and it is also a happy moment that the member states of the european union will implement this automatic exchange of information within seven months. the third important point is the guarantee of a level playing field, which has already been mentioned. smes generally pay 30% more in taxes than multinational companies, and this must be abolished. and secondly, an external strategy is necessary. the tax havens must be shown. this is the only way to ensure fair tax competition, both for businesses and for member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the implementation of our demands against tax evasion, against tax avoidance, against tax inequalities between the big and the small is gaining momentum. that's good. the commission's proposals with their six mandatory measures are not just the implementation of the oecd decision, but go beyond that and are right and necessary and therefore welcome. we want these six proposals to be implemented as soon as possible, to make nails with heads, even though we know that there is still a lot of unfinished business. it is open to the common consolidated corporate tax base the proposal must come. public country-specific reporting for multinational corporations is open parliament's proposals are on the table. it is obvious that the vat directive is being fully respected - my colleague langen points out this constantly. and it is clear that the sinners are punished and not rewarded for their sins the penalties must go to the eu budget and not back into the sinners' coffers. we have a lot of work to do, but today is the right step.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the tax reform package is undoubtedly an important contribution to greater tax fairness. tax rules must apply equally to all businesses and individuals. we need a single european taxation system and the principle that multinational companies such as mcdonalds should be considered as one company and not as many. a merger of, for example, franchise companies must be established in the european union. but i'm missing a few things, too. what i miss and what previous speakers have said, and what is particularly important, is more courage to more transparency through public country-by-country reporting. i have just had a conversation with the dutch ambassador, who assured me that, once the commission's impact assessment is available, the dutch presidency is prepared to take up this subject as well, and not just stick to the oecd rules as they have been in the presidency programme so far. what i also miss are proposals for intellectual property, i.e. patent boxes. i would also like the commission to be more ambitious in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report. it includes provisions relating to the schengen agreement, which i am critical of.
in writing. ‒ a further consolidation of the current legal situation, which does not provide the right answers to the current crisis situation, is certainly the wrong way to go. the national states must be free to decide whether and how to protect their borders. i therefore vote against the codification of schengen legislation and therefore against this report.
in writing. ‒ i would have voted against this report because the schengen borders code, which sets the rules for the schengen area, obliges the eu commission and the member states concerned to inform the european parliament and the council of the eu if there are grounds for temporarily reintroducing border controls. it is in these times that border controls are particularly important. i do not accept short-term arrangements and border controls.
in writing. ‒ a further consolidation of the current legal situation, which does not provide the right answers to the current crisis situation, is certainly the wrong way to go. the national states must be free to decide whether and how to protect their borders. i therefore vote against the codification of schengen legislation and therefore against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the adoption of an additional protocol to an international agreement to which the member states and the eu have already acceded. i shall abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ it is a proposal to adopt an additional protocol to an international agreement to which the member states and the eu have already acceded and are already taking account of. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ this is an adaptation of an additional protocol to an international agreement to which the member states and the european union have already acceded. i would have abstained.
in writing. ‒ it is a proposal to adopt an additional protocol to an international agreement to which the member states and the eu have already acceded and are already taking account of. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the adoption of an additional protocol to an international agreement to which the member states and the eu have already acceded. i shall abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ it is a proposal to adopt an additional protocol to an international agreement to which the member states and the eu have already acceded and are already taking account of. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation cited contains a measure which should provide better protection for human health. as this is only an adaptation of an additional protocol to an international agreement to which the member states and the european union have already acceded, i have abstained from voting on this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ it is a proposal to adopt an additional protocol to an international agreement to which the member states and the eu have already acceded and are already taking account of. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on this report, which deals with the fight against international crime, as i do not see any serious conflict with the ukrainian government on this issue at the moment.
in writing. ‒ i am critical of the eurojust agency. the report does, however, mention the fight against international crime in a positive light. unfortunately, there is no critical debate with the current ukrainian government. i'm abstaining from my vote.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to eurojust in principle, but the report calls for a stronger fight against international crime. in addition, there is no critical dispute with the current ukrainian government. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i am critical of the eurojust agency. the report does, however, mention the fight against international crime in a positive light. unfortunately, there is no critical debate with the current ukrainian government. i'm abstaining from my vote.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on this report, which deals with the fight against international crime, as i do not believe that there is any serious dispute with the montenegrin government on this issue at the moment.
in writing. ‒ i reject eurojust as an agency. i am pleased that the report mentions the fight against international crime. i'm abstaining from my vote.
in writing. ‒ in this report, too, i am critical of eurojust as an agency. however, the report also deals with the fight against international crime. that is why i have abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject eurojust as an agency. i am pleased that the report mentions the fight against international crime. i'm abstaining from my vote.
in writing. ‒ i follow the decision of the legal affairs committee to waive the immunity of mr iwaszkiewicz. the incident described occurred before his term as eu mandate holder and is not related to the exercise of the mandate.
in writing. ‒ there are no politically motivated reasons for this extradition request. these are traffic offences. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ robert jaroslaw is accused of having committed on 21 august 2014 an irregularity within the meaning of article 92a of the polish law on irregularities in conjunction with article 20 (1) of the polish road traffic code of 20 june 1997. i voted for the deprivation of liberty of robert jaoslaw and i am in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity until this case is solved and there are no more charges.
in writing. ‒ there are no politically motivated reasons for this extradition request. these are traffic offences. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ i follow the decision of the legal affairs committee to waive the immunity of mr iwaszkiewicz. the incident described occurred before his term as eu mandate holder and is not related to the exercise of the mandate.
in writing. ‒ there are no politically motivated reasons for this extradition request. these are traffic offences. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ robert jaroslaw is accused of having committed on 21 august 2014 an irregularity within the meaning of article 92a of the polish law on irregularities in conjunction with article 20 (1) of the polish road traffic code of 20 june 1997. i voted for the deprivation of liberty of robert jaroslaw and i am in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity until this case is solved and there are no more charges.
in writing. ‒ there are no politically motivated reasons for this extradition request. these are traffic offences. i therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ the legal affairs committee has not found any grounds justifying the waiver of mr philippot's immunity. i therefore support the committee's decision.
in writing. ‒ the request for withdrawal relates to a political expression of opinion by the member in the context of his mandate. the purpose of parliamentary immunity is generally to ensure that the legislature can exercise its constitutional mandate without undue interference by third parties, and in particular the executive. that is why i am voting in favour of this motion.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. the motion for a resolution refers to a political expression of opinion by the member in the course of his mandate. the purpose of parliamentary immunity is generally to ensure that the legislature can exercise its constitutional mandate without undue interference by third parties, and in particular the executive.
in writing. ‒ the request for withdrawal relates to a political expression of opinion by the member in the context of his mandate. the purpose of parliamentary immunity is generally to ensure that the legislature can exercise its constitutional mandate without undue interference by third parties, and in particular the executive. that is why i am voting in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ the creation of such a european platform will undoubtedly result in workers being subjected to permanent monitoring without any reason. the report also contains serious shortcomings in terms of data protection. i do not agree with the report for that reason.
in writing. ‒ the proposed platform is another eu agency that wants to further control european workers. i reject any further harassment in the form of increased inspections. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the european union wants to create an additional platform or institution to monitor information exchanges between national authorities more efficiently. this should enable everyone to intervene as quickly as possible if there is a risk of black labour. since it is not clear how efficient this project will be, i am clearly against any further waste of money.
in writing. ‒ the proposed platform is another eu agency that wants to further control european workers. i reject any further harassment in the form of increased inspections. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ a mid-term review of the 2011 strategy to halt biodiversity loss and the decline in ecosystem services and to restore as much as possible by 2020 is underway. the report shows that without additional efforts, the target of 2020 would be missed if there is no better implementation and enforcement of existing legislation. i agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ since nature conservation is a prime example of a subject which needs to be better addressed at community level, and because environmental protection is also homeland protection, i support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a report on the actual promotion and financing of nature conservation. the report also calls for greater transparency in greening measures. the protection of nature is a prime example of something that needs to be better dealt with at community level, and because protecting the environment is also protecting the environment, i support this report.
in writing. ‒ since nature conservation is a prime example of a subject which needs to be better addressed at community level, and because environmental protection is also homeland protection, i support this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since jean-claude juncker gave his memorable state of the union speech here on 9 september, we have known what to do. we have been dealing with this again and again in the following plenary week. the problems have become bigger, and now they threaten the whole union, because nothing substantial is changing, because we are disoriented by ideological fog and because the member states are playing the black peter game and a blame game is being played throughout the union. that's enough! something has to change! i hope that the dutch people's proverbial pragmatism, and that of you as the dutch presidency, will overcome this blockade. we need to finally have sufficient funds for the countries of origin, we must finally put our relations with turkey on a neighbourly basis, we must finally guarantee a functioning european border management and we need a solidarity distribution within the union. but this will only work if we finally set up these hotspots, which we have been promised so many times, commissioner! we must finally register the people who are coming in. then what happened to these 10,000 young people, which europol has uncovered these days, will not happen again. they simply disappeared. we need normality, we need more real politics, and it must be human rights-compliant and efficient.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a technical question about your presidency, which i think is very neat. however, i have a problem when i repeatedly show up with a blue card and your staff and you look the other way. how am i supposed to do it in the future? i'm supposed to yell at people at the table, bang on the table? please help me, how do i make it so that you can see me when i show a blue card?
i have to say, madam president, in the refugee debate of recent years, we have always heard - especially from the left - the mantra of the evil fortress europe. and i warned you about that cheeky lie back then. because europe is not a fortress to this day. our borders were and still are open like a barn door, like a swiss cheese, if you will. we have no protection of our external borders, and over a million immigrants are clear proof of that. now turkey is to be used to stop this migration. turkey is asking for 5 billion, and this is in addition to the 750 million in so-called pre-accession aid that is already being paid out every year. this is a bazaar, this is blackmail, and i fear that turkey will continue to trample on fundamental rights, continue to arrest journalists, continue to campaign against the kurds and continue to play europe to the wind. in any case, turkey is not an option to replace our lack of determination in border security.
i have to say, madam president, madam president, in view of the repetition of the cases, i ask you to call for a moderation of the diction. i am now hearing for the third time from the left dictations which, despite the sadness of the situation on europe's external borders, are in no way, in no proportion to the horrors of the nazi era. i hear you're making comparisons to the nazi era. i have heard the speaker compare the treatment of refugees to the holocaust twice. the holocaust is a unique crime among the nazis, and i ask you here to step in and declare that these comparisons are inappropriate and must not be used any further.
in writing. open borders within the eu are non-negotiable. the developments in the current refugee crisis and the response to the paris terror must not lead to the abandonment of schengen. five eu countries - austria, germany, sweden, denmark and france - have already introduced temporary border controls. in practical terms, border controls already impose significant restrictions on the free movement of goods within the eu and on the freedom of movement of europeans. traffic jams with waiting times of over one hour, such as those at the checkpoint on the a8 salzburg-munich during peak times, could become commonplace in the future when border controls are reintroduced. this has negative economic effects on the eu internal market and a significant burden on travellers. this is already being felt and quantified. but let me be clear: despite the current increase in border controls, schengen remains in force. the schengen acquis also covers the fight against crime and terrorism. we must do everything in europe to ensure that the current exceptional situation does not become the regular situation. this includes a european action plan calling for solidarity among eu member states in the refugee crisis, an alternative to dublin iii and, above all, a clear commitment by the european parliament and the member states to the principle of open internal borders.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you for the opportunity to clarify the commission’s intention for gender equality policy during its mandate. the commission published its ‘strategic engagement for gender equality 2016-2019’ on 3 december 2015 as its framework plan for future actions to improve gender equality. the strategic engagement is a follow-up and continuation of the commission’s 2010-2015 strategy for equality between women and men. the priorities in the 2010-2015 strategy for equality between women and men remain valid. the wide consultations and the evaluation that we carried out to prepare the strategic engagement clearly confirms this. while progress has been achieved, further action is needed to secure the necessary changes. gender and gender equality is an important part of the juncker commission’s agenda. as you know, this commission also embarked on a better regulation programme, refocusing its activities and instruments. as a representative of the commission and a member of the college, i can confirm to you that the new strategic engagement is the official commission position, which has the political support of the entire commission. it is set out in its 2016 work programme: the commission is engaged in practical work to promote gender equality. as was explained at the constructive exchange of views with the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) on 14 december, we should focus on the delivery of change on the ground. the strategic engagement describes how gender equality actions will be focused on five priority areas during this commission mandate: increasing female labour-market participation and equal economic independence; reducing the gender pay, earnings and pension gaps and thus fighting poverty among women; promoting equality between women and men in decision-making; combating gender-based violence and protecting and supporting victims; promoting gender equality and women’s rights across the world. it also confirms the integration of the consideration of gender equality into every aspect of european union interventions. there are more than 30 key actions to be implemented in each of the five priority areas identified, as well as objectives and timelines for these actions, responsibilities in the commission’s services and funding available to support progress. together with timelines and indicators, the strategic engagement defines a baseline against which future progress will be measured on a regular basis. the strategic engagement builds on the targets agreed at eu level. in particular it supports reaching the european union’s 2020 target of a 75% employment rate for both men and women. it is a concrete planning instrument for the commission which other stakeholders are welcome to join. on 15 january 2016 the commission participated in the council’s working party on social questions, which held a first exchange on the draft council conclusions on the strategic engagement for gender equality. the dutch presidency expressed its intention to have the council conclusions adopted at the march meeting of the employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs council (epsco). the strategic engagement for gender equality provides a basis for gender equality actions in the coming years and in particular covers the key issues parliament identified in its june 2015 resolution. it represents the commission’s work programme for gender equality policy for 2016-2019.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank commissioner jourová for her efforts to make gender equality a reality in the european union. she demonstrated that she is really and sincerely committed. i am referring in particular to the mediation efforts in the women on boards directive negotiations with the council and to the fact that she is trying by all means to relaunch the maternity leave file by proposing a roadmap towards a broader approach to a work and private life balance. however, i cannot hide my disappointment while being confronted with a staff working document instead of a proper comprehensive strategy for gender equality. i am not criticising the measures adopted in the document, but i do denounce, in the name of my group, the downgrading of the strategy, especially because it happened against the clear position of this parliament, since the noichl report was adopted with a large majority, and against the clear statements of 22 member states. moreover, the evaluation of the past strategy resulted in a specific call to further strengthen the strategic approach adopted in 2010 and not to weaken it. in light of those signals sent by the commission, by the entire college, my question is: should we consider the inequality affecting more than half of the population of europe as red tape? is this the message? my last comment concerns the behaviour of some groups in the house. they have once again demonstrated, as the previous speaker showed, that they do not take gender equality seriously.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. when i travel in austria, i am often asked: yes, what does the eu bring me? and then i can go: i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that the member states often say: 'huh, there is subsidiarity', and then they slow down wherever they can. i'm well aware of that. the commission should not, however, be discouraged. because women are beaten, they are sexually harassed. women have different health problems than men. the situation in the supervisory boards is still sad: there are almost no women, and there are many more men. women are unemployed, underemployed, part-time unlike men. women and digitization, that's another one of those issues, and women and gender budgeting. so you see, commissioner, there is so much to do, so much to do. and what is currently on the table from the commission i would call equality strategies, something small, something small, but nothing where we can really make a substantial impact. so we need a real equality strategy!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't understand the excitement here. we are debating nothing more and nothing less than whether a country - one of twenty-eight - wants to go down the road of remaining in this european union or leaving it by means of a democratic referendum. it must be said that the european union is not a gift from god, it is not a sacred commandment, and it is certainly not a law of nature. the european union is a club. any association can be dissolved in a normal way, and any association can also change the rules that hold it together. i understand very well, in this context, that there are wishes coming from the united kingdom to protect its own labour market in a time of record unemployment, when its own labour market cannot be open to a whole europe with all its problems. i understand the british when they say that they want to stabilise their own social system, because it is not possible for one country to solve all the social problems of a community. i understand the british when they say they want security in their own country, they want control of their borders back and to know whether people with terrorist or jihadist backgrounds are coming into the country. we'll see how that decision goes. i can only wish the british the best in this process and hope that there will be pressure for reform in the direction of the european union. i would like to say one thing: in a democracy, one person is always right. it is not you, it is not the commission, it is not us. that's the population. please respect that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since the refugee crisis, we have seen an inflation of summits without any relevant results. decisions are postponed, postponed and not pursued. the summits have become a showcase for nationalist egotists. the last summit was a disappointment. a coalition of the willing wanted a european solution. they have not been penetrated and the result is a series of border closures which endanger the whole of schengen. we need action, we need help on the ground, we need functioning external borders, we need the promised hotspots, we need a fair distribution of refugees. the citizens of europe at least expect that the decisions we have taken over and over again will finally be implemented.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would ask the council to begin the next summit by reading the quote from robert schuman. the european union is not a one-off event. it is not a simple summary, but it will be generated by events that create an act of solidarity. these acts of solidarity, this assumption of responsibility for the community - for all 508 million citizens - are now being criminally neglected. where are the next steps towards integration into a common foreign policy so that we can tackle the causes of the refugee crisis? where are the actions for a common security policy so that we can have protection of the external border? where is the common defence policy so that we can start the fight against isis together? and where are the efforts in asylum, migration and integration policies and in a common social policy which is needed for a single market, a continent committed to an eco-social market economy? the question is always: where is the eu? i ask: where are the member states in implementing the seven proposals, the decisions of the commission and parliament? where is the council on the implementation of the seven commission proposals which have not yet been adopted? and where will the council be when the commission makes four new proposals in march? go to work, do not jeopardize the european project!
in writing. ‒ protecting austrian agriculture is my top priority. at the same time, i see great problems in an agreement with the republic of moldova on food standards and cultivation methods. however, moldova's low level of industrialisation means that there are currently development opportunities primarily in agriculture. i shall therefore abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal is intended to protect the domestic economy, but such association agreements are seen as critical, as there is often a fear of further centralisation to brussels and a disempowerment of the nation states. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the association agreement between the eu and the republic of moldova. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal is intended to protect the domestic economy, but such association agreements are seen as critical, as there is often a fear of further centralisation to brussels and a disempowerment of the nation states. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ protecting austrian agriculture is my top priority. at the same time, i see great problems in an agreement with georgia on food standards and farming methods. however, georgia's low level of industrialisation means that there are currently development opportunities primarily in agriculture. i shall therefore abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal is intended to protect the domestic economy, but such association agreements are seen as critical, as there is often a fear of further centralisation to brussels and a disempowerment of the nation states. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained here too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal is intended to protect the domestic economy, but such association agreements are seen as critical, as there is often a fear of further centralisation to brussels and a disempowerment of the nation states. i shall therefore abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this motion for a resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh agreement. nothing shall in principle prevent the ratification of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the ratification of the marrakesh treaty aims to ensure that intellectual property rights do not constitute disproportionate or discriminatory barriers to access to cultural goods for people with disabilities. the council also called for the ratification process to be speeded up in this respect. i therefore approve this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion because the ratification of the marrakesh treaty is intended to guarantee the protection of intellectual property rights. the aim is to ensure that people with disabilities have access to cultural heritage. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
in writing. ‒ the ratification of the marrakesh treaty aims to ensure that intellectual property rights do not constitute disproportionate or discriminatory barriers to access to cultural goods for people with disabilities. the council also called for the ratification process to be speeded up in this respect. i therefore approve this motion.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this motion for a resolution on the problem of genetically modified organisms (gmos). the commission must take note of austria's rejection of gmos. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified maize. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new legislative proposal to address the concerns of the many member states which are specifically opposed to genetically modified organisms.
in writing. ‒ the commission is invited to withdraw its implementing decision. instead, it should present a new legislative proposal that addresses the concerns of the many member states that are specifically opposed to gmos. there is a nationwide rejection of gmos. i agree with that.
in writing. ‒ the proposal calls on the commission to withdraw its implementing decision and to submit a new legislative proposal instead, which also takes into account the concerns of the member states specifically addressing gmos. i therefore voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ the commission is invited to withdraw its implementing decision. instead, it should present a new legislative proposal that addresses the concerns of the many member states that are specifically opposed to gmos. there is a nationwide rejection of gmos. i agree with that.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this motion for a resolution on the problem of genetically modified organisms (gmos). the commission must take note of austria's rejection of gmos. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified maize. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new legislative proposal to address the concerns of the many member states which are specifically opposed to genetically modified organisms.
in writing. ‒ the commission is invited to withdraw its implementing decision. instead, it should present a new legislative proposal that addresses the concerns of the many member states that are specifically opposed to gmos. there is a nationwide rejection of gmos. i agree with that.
in writing. ‒ the proposal calls on the commission to withdraw its implementing decision and to submit a new legislative proposal instead, which also takes into account the concerns of the member states specifically addressing gmos. i therefore voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ the commission is invited to withdraw its implementing decision. instead, it should present a new legislative proposal that addresses the concerns of the many member states that are specifically opposed to gmos. there is a nationwide rejection of gmos. i agree with that.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this motion for a resolution on the problem of genetically modified organisms (gmos). the commission must take note of austria's rejection of gmos. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified maize. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new legislative proposal to address the concerns of the many member states which are specifically opposed to genetically modified organisms.
in writing. ‒ the commission is invited to withdraw its implementing decision. instead, it should present a new legislative proposal that addresses the concerns of the many member states that are specifically opposed to gmos. there is a nationwide rejection of gmos. i agree with that.
in writing. ‒ the proposal calls on the commission to withdraw its implementing decision and to propose a new legislative proposal that takes account of the concerns of member states specifically addressing gmos. i therefore voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ the commission is invited to withdraw its implementing decision. instead, it should present a new legislative proposal that addresses the concerns of the many member states that are specifically opposed to gmos. there is a nationwide rejection of gmos. i agree with that.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this motion for a resolution because the author criticises the commission's draft implementing decision which goes beyond the commission's powers (ec 715/2007). the commission's proposal creates a general 'de facto exception' to the existing emission limit values. this is contrary to the above-mentioned regulation. the commission is therefore invited to withdraw this draft and to make appropriate adjustments by april 2016 to ensure that all vehicles are subject to real driving emissions tests.
in writing. ‒ the euro 6 standard provides for emission limits of 80 mg/km of nox. these are benchmarks that can only be tested in laboratories. it is now clear that these test bench values from 1996 differ greatly from the actual emission values on the road: driving behaviour has a massive influence on emissions. in real driving conditions, the actual nitrogen oxide emissions are up to 320 mg/km. the introduction of real driving emissions test (rde) is therefore essential. the limit values must also be in accordance with the new test procedure: the adaptation of the nox limit values to the real test procedure is done by means of conformity factors according to the comitology proposal: new diesel models may emit 168 mg nox/km from 1 september 2017, from 1 january 2020 only 120 mg nox/km. this is an ambitious target, given that real emissions are up to four times higher. the automotive industry in austria employs indirectly 370 000 people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a timely manner. the rejection of the proposal would mean a major delay in the introduction of rde tests. rde tests allow for the detectability of limit values and provide clarity and transparency in the interest of customer confidence and environmental protection. i therefore voted against the objection to ensure the introduction of reliable tests. legal certainty must be created for consumers and producers.
in writing. ‒ the commission's draft proposal creates legal uncertainty for vehicle manufacturers, as the current calculation allows a margin of uncertainty of up to 30%. this is also at the expense of consumers. i therefore approve the motion.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of stricter regulations on exhaust gas tests for diesel vehicles. unfortunately, the majority of the plenary voted in favour of the original commission proposal, which was greatly weakened by the eu member states. this generous regulation now allows the value measured on the road to be more than twice the official limit value for laboratory measurement by 2020. after that, the emissions on the road may still be up to 50 percent above the laboratory value. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health insurance system.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution criticises the commission's draft implementing decision, which would create significant legal uncertainty for vehicle manufacturers. i have to say that i am not in favour of the proposal, because it would also be detrimental to consumers.
in writing. ‒ the commission's draft proposal creates legal uncertainty for vehicle manufacturers, as the current calculation allows a margin of uncertainty of up to 30%. this is also at the expense of consumers. i therefore approve the motion.
in writing. ‒ the trade in services agreement (tisa) cannot be approved. the agreement is a set of agreements in the form of an international treaty between 23 parties, including the united states and the european union. the tisa agreement aims to liberalise services worldwide, including the free flow of data. in general, no state should be able to prevent a company from creating information of any kind outside the country, including personal data, which can be exchanged, processed and stored without hindrance.
in writing. ‒ talking has gone from a clear no to tisa, to a report with 'clear red lines' to a song of praise for the free trade agreement, which we cannot follow. the report presented does not say anything about the final shape of the agreement. the only way to prevent dangers to citizens and society is to reject the agreement, and that is why i reject this motion.
in writing. ‒ today i have agreed to the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiation of the trade in services agreement (tisa). tisa is of particular importance to the eu we are the world's largest importer and exporter of services and therefore have a fundamental interest in both building and shaping a sound legal basis for international trade in services. the report stresses that trade in services should not lead to regulatory arbitrage and social dumping. it also envisages including a 'gold standard' in the agreement to make the public utilities exemption in all circumstances inviolable. the alde group has been particularly active in advocating high standards in sensitive areas such as data protection and mode 4.
in writing. ‒ the report presented does not say anything about the final shape of the agreement and is far too critical of tisa. the report also shows a shift from a critical to an almost positive attitude. but only by rejecting the agreement can the dangers to citizens and society be prevented. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ talking has gone from a clear no to tisa, to a report with 'clear red lines' to a song of praise for the free trade agreement, which we cannot follow. the report presented does not say anything about the final shape of the agreement. the only way to prevent dangers to citizens and society is to reject the agreement, and that is why i reject this motion.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report. the aim is to promote a strategy for gender equality in the member states in everyday life and in all areas of society, which provides for far more comprehensive and preventive measures to prevent inequality of treatment, rather than focusing on existing policies for equality between men and women. this is not a matter for the union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion as it would have the effect of mainstreaming gender into national legislation. equality between men and women is an important goal that must be pursued with ambition. the member states should be left to decide how they will achieve this. gender regulations at eu level are certainly the wrong way to go. in addition, individual performance, not gender, should always be the determining factor in career success.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken against the present report. we do not need further implementation of 'gender mainstreaming' in our daily lives, nor do we need further quotas to address perceived or actual inequalities. gender equality, in my view, does not mean equality imposed from above.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion as it would have the effect of mainstreaming gender into national legislation. equality between men and women is an important goal that must be pursued with ambition. the member states should be left to decide how they will achieve this. gender regulations at eu level are certainly the wrong way to go. in addition, individual performance, not gender, should always be the determining factor in career success.
the explanations of vote are closed.
madam president, i just wanted to take the floor as rapporteur for kosovo – and i will speak straight afterwards – but i would like to express my appreciation for the work done and the good cooperation with the rapporteur, mr mcallister. i would also like to express my appreciation for the progress made in serbia in recent months and years on many grounds – in the dialogue with kosovo, but also on other grounds, for example, the fight against corruption – i find that extremely important. i also support the opening of two chapters with the european union in negotiations there because i want serbia to become a member of the european union, as i want kosovo to become a member of the european union. i would nevertheless like to raise two issues which are of huge concern to me as a european citizen. one is that, in the dialogue between serbia and kosovo, there is the principle of good neighbourly relations, as in the european union. this means that serbia should support kosovo’s bids to join the united nations or to join organisations like fifa or uefa or others and not block them, because that is being part of a cooperative international community. i would also like to call on the authorities not to go against certain critical journalists and media, because that is also part of democracy.
in writing. serbia is a strategically important partner of the eu in the balkans. the country is currently facing a major challenge and a major responsibility, especially in the refugee crisis. the indicators suggest that serbia will be able to meet the future challenges of eu membership. the serbian government is advancing the integration process and is showing its readiness to implement the acquis in a planned and coordinated manner. the rule of law is becoming more and more established, leading to a relaxation of relations with neighbouring countries. the rule of law is also important for the investment climate and is the basis for liberalising the economic structure. the integration of the social partners into legislation is progressing, as are efforts to make the judiciary more independent. given the pressure from the media and political parties on anti-corruption measures and the high level of organised crime that is hampering serbia's democratic, social and economic development, the country has a lot of catching up to do. the same applies, as the rapporteur rightly points out, to freedom of speech: there are repeated cases of threats against journalists or self-censorship. despite all this, serbia seems to be on the right track. the reform of public administration has begun, regional self-determination is largely implemented and the government limits its intervention to coordination.
in writing. the progress report on serbia's accession provides strong evidence that it is possible to implement the copenhagen criteria even in difficult circumstances. this is also due to the strong affirmation of the european perspective by the current serbian leadership. the self-critical examination of the recent past, which has resulted in a positive affirmation of the multiculturalism of the western balkans, is also particularly positive. this is also recognised in the motion for a resolution. for example, with regard to the autonomous province of vojvodina: the cultural diversity of vojvodina contributes to the identity of serbia. serbia must be supported in this process of self-discovery. in this context, it is also worth mentioning the efforts to deal with the expulsion of the danube swabians after the second world war. this is an important step towards a european perspective which is not based on the mutual reckoning of the past but on reconciliation and mutual understanding.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, kosovo is the youngest european state. in two weeks it will be eight years since it declared independence after war, after very difficult times, and there are lots of young people there – younger and older ones – who are sure they want this country to become a member of the european union, a fully-fledged member of this european community. it is a very pro-european citizenship there, and there has been progress over the last years, as you have mentioned, commissioner, and also you, minister, for the council. the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) was adopted just two weeks ago in this house and this will come into force very soon. there is also progress in the dialogue between kosovo and serbia: not good enough yet, but there is progress. kosovo will soon, if things go well, have a telephone code of its own, which it has not had yet. so there is progress, but still it is not enough. this parliament has been supportive of kosovo’s statehood, of its independence, since the beginning, and we need to move forward on that with the commission and the council, because this country is still not fully recognised by all eu member states. five are still blocking, for example, kosovo from becoming a member of europol or interpol, to increase the fight against corruption and organised crime, or also blocking things as important to citizens as the international football association or uefa – or even the eurovision song contest for those who like it. so, these things are important for citizens here. more needs to be done, and most of all visa liberalisation, as has been mentioned, because of this feeling of being locked in. just imagine you live in a very small country; all citizens of countries around you can travel freely to the european union to visit friends and families, and to visit the beautiful sights etc., of this european union, and you cannot, although your parents and grandparents in yugoslavia, more than 25 years ago, could do that. so this is something where efforts need to be improved. kosovo has to do a bit more yet, but so has the commission – and here i directly address the commissioner – to move forward as soon as the commission gives a green light, and i would also call on the council presidency: please give the green light to make sure that kosovo citizens can travel freely. coming to the domestic crisis in kosovo: last week we had the european integration committee of the kosovo assembly here – all parties, government and opposition. this is the way forward, and i have called on the opposition time and again to stop blocking the assembly, to stop using violence in the assembly – and also outside, demonstrations are fine, but peaceful ones please – and to go back in, and i would also call on all of them to follow the call of president atifete jahjaga to get around the dialogue table and to find a non-violent solution to the domestic crisis. when it comes to the implementation of the dialogue agreement between kosovo and serbia, i need a couple of sentences more, thank you. it is important to implement it, but also, for the association of serbian municipalities, in line with the ruling of the constitutional court of kosovo. this is possible. it is about the laws and the statutes, whereas the agreement is only on the principles. the constitutional court is part of the statehood of kosovo, with three international judges on it, so this is something i appeal also to this house to vote in favour of. many other details are in the report. i have no time to go into details on that. i would like to thank all the shadows for their good cooperation, and i hope from this house there will be good support for kosovo in its european process, strong support from this parliament as in all the years before. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. kosovo je srce srbije i am a little surprised that we are discussing european integration of kosovo here. would it not be better to discuss european integration for the whole of serbia? because kosovo is a province in the heart of serbia, and the serb majority there has been deliberately promoted to a minority. if the muslim majority in kosovo is taken as a legitimate reason for recognising that country, then other regions in europe will surely follow suit. it is also important for us that the destruction of serbian identity in this region is a sad reality. recently, an attack on the dečani monastery was prevented. in the balkans, a radical salafist islam is flourishing and developing. we all know this from our debates, which we have conducted here in the house with great difficulty. it is in this spirit that recruitment camps are being run in the balkans, which certainly cannot be in the spirit of all of us.
i always appreciate working with you, and that also goes for kosovo, even if i know that your member state does not recognise it. you have been very cooperative. but when you say now that i demand different things than i demand from serbia in my report, then that is simply not true. yes, kosovo also has to implement for sure. but in certain things, like the constitutional court, it can be done in accordance with the agreement that was achieved on 25 august. this is possible, and i ask you to support that and not to vote against.
i have to say, madam president, i do not want to criticise your presidency, but i would ask you to clarify something: was that a blue card, was that a question or a correlation? if you give the rapporteur more than half a minute to prepare her report, i would make sure that at least when she puts a question with a blue card, she actually puts a question and does not hold a briefing and thus uses her opportunities a little more than usual. madam president, let us all remain in solidarity and stick to our means and also to our time.
i have to say, madam president, i think we should be honest about this. there are 200 jihadists in kosovo for every million inhabitants. the country is even ahead of belgium and has the highest density in europe, even exceeding libya by 100%. mosques are being built all over the country by saudi hardcore islamists. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the forecast made by a swiss newspaper that kosovo could become the first islamic state in the union therefore seems very realistic. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. so there are no cultural, economic or security reasons for associating this country. let us therefore respect the will of the european citizens who do not want enlargement of the union - and certainly not an islamist state within the union. i am afraid that with kosovo we have the next european time bomb.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am very pleased and impressed by the sudden rise of feminists all over europe. finally, everyone seems to have understood that a no to a woman is really a no. however, i am now beginning to wonder why, according to a eurostat survey, 25% of europeans still think that a girl in a miniskirt is a problem or a challenge. unfortunately, the answer is very simple. the attacks in cologne were used in a populist way to incite against refugees. women's rights play only a very minor role in this. i would like to give an example: for many years women have complained about sexual harassment at the munich oktoberfest. what is the consequence of this? hardly any, and no media attention whatsoever. so i say, thank you very much for this feminist support. but the last thing we need right now is a bunch of opportunistic feminists. there is no doubt that the events in cologne are the result of a lack of integration and of existing problems in the legal system. however, there is a need for a fundamental change in perception of the role of women, not only in the context of the migration debate but also in our european society. the perpetrators must be punished, no matter who they are or where they come from. we need a european framework and national implementation to combat violence against women by all means. it is also clear that there are cultural differences, which cannot be denied at all - cultural differences within the european union, but also outside the member states. however, the likelihood of committing a criminal offence is no higher for migrants than for nationals. instead of becoming victims of our own fear, we should respond with positive action and confidence to manage the refugee wave and integrate people into our society in the best possible way. what chancellor angela merkel says is true: if you put the numbers of refugees in relation to the population of europe, then, believe me, we will find that the problems are solvable. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am new to this information, but if you say so, then it may be true. only what you said at the beginning isn't right. what i have quoted is a eurostat record; that means it has nothing to do with what you just said or what you just quoted. ultimately, we know that violence against women happens. it must be punished, no matter who commits it, and i make no difference in that regard, but i will not join the ranks of the quasi-opportunistic feminists who are now showing off. i am rather a campaigner for the promotion of women's equality at all levels.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
mr president, for the next amendment by the epp, we reached a compromise just before the voting started, so i would like to thank the shadow rapporteur for the epp for accepting to withdraw their amendment, amendment 8, and agreeing to just take out of the original paragraph the passage that reads, ‘and calls for the drafting of further legislation and statutes in line with that ruling’. so that would be my compromise with the epp, and i would like to ask all of the shadows to also agree on that. we did not have time to talk to you because it was just done at the last minute, and i would like to ask you to accept that.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. it strikes a good balance between the country's structural problems and the progress already being made. serbia is more than ever a strategically important eu partner in the balkans and should receive the best possible support from all member states for a swift eu accession.
in writing. ‒ kosovo is and remains a province in the heart of serbia. the serbian majority became a minority only through targeted infiltration. if we continue to accept the now predominant muslim majority in kosovo - which was created by underground immigration, expulsion and military conquest - as a legitimate basis for independence, then we will soon have to accept many other regions in the centre of europe as independent. because soon muslims will be the majority in many parts of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it essentially reduces serbia's autonomy in favour of increased influence from brussels. serbia should retain the right to an independent foreign policy and, beyond a minimum, to decide for itself whether and to what extent it wishes to promote the rights of certain minorities in its own country.
in writing. ‒ kosovo is and remains a province in the heart of serbia. the serbian majority became a minority only through targeted infiltration. if we continue to accept the now predominant muslim majority in kosovo - which was created by underground immigration, expulsion and military conquest - as a legitimate basis for independence, then we will soon have to accept many other regions in the centre of europe as independent. because soon muslims will be the majority in many parts of europe.
in writing. ‒ i reject this report because it is completely unbalanced, especially with regard to the serbian partners. i also miss the mention in the report of the continuing destruction of serbian cultural heritage in this region and the discrimination against the serbian minority in northern kosovo.
in writing. ‒ kosovo is and remains a province in the heart of serbia. the serbian majority became a minority only through targeted infiltration. if we continue to accept the now predominant muslim majority in kosovo - which was created by underground immigration, expulsion and military conquest - as a legitimate basis for independence, then we will soon have to accept many other regions in the centre of europe as independent. because soon muslims will be the majority in many parts of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i consider it to be too unbalanced in relation to the serb minority in kosovo. for example, the constant destruction of serbian cultural heritage is not discussed, nor are the aspirations of the serbs of north kosovo for autonomy.
in writing. ‒ kosovo is and remains a province in the heart of serbia. the serbian majority became a minority only through targeted infiltration. if we continue to accept the now predominant muslim majority in kosovo - which was created by underground immigration, expulsion and military conquest - as a legitimate basis for independence, then we will soon have to accept many other regions in the centre of europe as independent. because soon muslims will be the majority in many parts of europe.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on this resolution. it offers some good approaches to stabilising the situation in libya, but it avoids identifying the real causes of the disintegration of libya, which in my view creates an overall lack of transparency and a misguided perspective.
in writing. ‒ resolution offers some good approaches, but avoids identifying the real authors of the disintegration of libya and simply does not go far enough. overall, a halfhearted approach. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, although the resolution offers some positive approaches, it does not address the real authors of the state breakdown in libya. i do not understand this, because i believe that these states have a primary responsibility for restoring the integrity of the libyan state.
in writing. ‒ resolution offers some good approaches, but avoids identifying the real authors of the disintegration of libya and simply does not go far enough. overall, a halfhearted approach. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this resolution because islands need better support, especially in view of the prevailing influx of refugees.
in writing. ‒ the proposal essentially calls for additional funding for island regions and the establishment of further bodies such as the island reference office. the regions particularly affected by the wave of migration should be given more support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it not only promises a fairer distribution of burdens and allocations for the island regions which are currently particularly affected, particularly those in the mediterranean, but also suggests that it will have a positive effect on mountain regions.
in writing. ‒ the proposal essentially calls for additional funding for island regions and the establishment of further bodies such as the island reference office. the regions particularly affected by the wave of migration should be given more support.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of regional authorities to support the development of the regions and to provide them with the necessary resources to implement the esif.
in writing. ‒ the new initiatives of integrated territorial investment and local population-led local development allow for the pooling of funding sources, with gradual changes in the capabilities of local actors. the report emphasises the central role of local and regional authorities in the design and implementation of eu strategies, while recognising the role of a wide range of stakeholders, from member states to citizens' groups. the proximity of these local authorities to citizens and the diversity of governance at local and regional level are an asset to the eu. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i expect it to give regional authorities a stronger voice in the decision-making process. i think this is particularly appropriate in the context of the constant calls for greater respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the new initiatives of integrated territorial investment and local population-led local development allow for the pooling of funding sources, with gradual changes in the capabilities of local actors. the report emphasises the central role of local and regional authorities in the design and implementation of eu strategies, while recognising the role of a wide range of stakeholders, from member states to citizens' groups. the proximity of these local authorities to citizens and the diversity of governance at local and regional level are an asset to the eu. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on this resolution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the eu's cooperation with the countries of the middle east and the former soviet union to include the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union.
in writing. ‒ i share the concern expressed in the petition, due to food insecurity and attacks on the civilian population. i welcome the request for coordinated action by the united nations. the same could be said for a dialogue between yemen and saudi arabia to help resolve the crisis. that is why i support this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it adequately addresses the humanitarian situation in yemen and adequately addresses aspects such as food security, medical problems and instability in the region as a whole. the solution to the refugee problem must be tackled in the region of origin; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively.
in writing. ‒ i share the concern expressed in the petition, due to food insecurity and attacks on the civilian population. i welcome the request for coordinated action by the united nations. the same could be said for a dialogue between yemen and saudi arabia to help resolve the crisis. that is why i support this motion.
in writing. ‒ the appalling crimes of isis against religious minorities should be clearly and unequivocally condemned. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the resolution condemns in a comprehensive and unreserved manner the actions of is. proposals such as the establishment of safe zones are welcome, as is the call to muslim leaders to name the crimes of daesh. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it represents a small step in the right direction in combating the tyranny of isis. i have decided against paragraph 10 of the report, however, because i do not think it is necessary for the eu to create a commissioner for religious and philosophical issues in addition to all its positions.
in writing. ‒ the resolution condemns in a comprehensive and unreserved manner the actions of is. proposals such as the establishment of safe zones are welcome, as is the call to muslim leaders to name the crimes of daesh. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by expressing my pleasure. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. in the netherlands too - i read in the media today - there is a democratic majority in favour of a referendum on remaining in the european union. in my country, austria, there is also a very strong dissatisfaction with the european union, and i ask in this context: why should it not be possible that on that continent where democracy was born - whether it was in iceland or greece - political historians should argue accordingly that democracy is taking hold again on our continent? nothing is better than democracy. in every state, in every system, there is always one person who is right, and that is the people themselves. it is not you, it is not us and it is not my political friends, it is the sovereign, the people. europe will only take a step forward if it succeeds in including people in democratic decision-making and not leaving them out.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that we have a basis for decision-making in the uk referendum, and it is up to the british people to make the right decision, and i am convinced that they will. unfortunately, other important decisions have been postponed: this is the refugee issue that is really very much on our minds at the moment, and it is a pity that it cannot be decided until the summit on 5 march. this is the last chance we have, and we finally need to support the capacity of the countries of origin, more monetary structures, real money, more security at the borders. we cannot achieve this by over-extending internal borders, but we need the support of greece - not only for security standards, but also for human rights in this context - and finally, and finally, we must bring about this much-vaunted european solution. a survey by the bertelsmann foundation has shown us that this is what the citizens expect. it is time for europe and not for national isolation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. both issues - the refugee issue and the uk referendum - have something in common, namely that there are too many politicians who show a lack of seriousness, a lack of sincerity, who play with people's concerns and fears instead of focusing on the solution. the common theme of both is that there are people from our political camps who live out domestic politics, intra-party problems and conflicts, national egoisms, personal profiling attempts at the expense of european solidarity and the european project. i'm asking you all to stop playing this game. it is too serious, both in the refugee question and in the question of the united kingdom! it is about the unification of europe, it is about this community. it is not about renationalisation and the pursuit of one's own egos and attempts at profiling. it must be said very clearly: it is unacceptable that the wrongdoing of one is justified by the wrongdoing of the other. it is unacceptable that one man's fences are justified by another man's fences. the european and international law, our values and resolutions are sufficient to bring about a movement towards a solution to these problems and to give them more credibility rather than chaos. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. in view of the negotiations of the last few days, i would also like to thank my colleagues brok, gualtieri and verhofstadt from this parliament, who helped to bring about an agreement. the commission has been able to ensure that the european union as a whole is not sacrificed on the altar of national interests. and so i assume that the citizens - manfred weber quoted her - want to strengthen the community and not go out. if the uk says no, there will be a trial anyway. the vote will not be on the agreement, but on a 'no' or 'yes'. in general, however, i would say that any referendum initiated by governments is an evasion of responsibility and a weakening of parliamentary democracy. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. again, the two themes are similar: there are decisions, and the problem is that there is a lack of seriousness in the way decisions are handled. that is up to the people who make these decisions. you have to take yourself seriously. because if you don't take yourself seriously, you won't be taken seriously. this is as true of the refugee question as it is of the agreement with the united kingdom, and i say that it is not the agreement that is up for debate, but the yes or no to european union. i ask politicians to show more seriousness, also in the implementation of their decisions. we have the problems in the member states because there is a lack of sincerity in the decisions and because one is played off against the other. stand by your word and promise. we'd all be better off.
for the next catch-the-eye procedure, i have, as it stands now, about 14 reports. i think i can take about ten. i'll look at it from time to time. if you all stick to the one minute speaking time, i'll make it easier to gain more. catch the eye
i'm not going to die. the catch-the-eye approach is that we try to get as many as possible, but also have a certain ratio between the larger and smaller fractions. i have asked for three speakers from each of the larger groups, two from the smaller groups, and also from those who are not members of a group - your colleagues, also from hungary, someone from your party, and someone else from the non-attached groups. i think that is understandable in this context. you were the third non-factional to speak for catch-the-eye. i've got two more coming in. i think i have distributed that evenly in this house.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by maria joão rodrigues, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: annual growth survey 2016 (2015/2285(ini)) (a8-0030/2016), the report by sofia ribeiro, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey 2016 (2015/2330(ini)) (a8-0031/2016) and the report by catherine stihler, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the governance of the internal market in the context of the european semester 2016 (2015/252(ini)) (a8-0017/2016).
mr tremosa i balcells, that was not a question. i let you speak a bit longer but i will nevertheless give the floor to mr eickhout.
in writing. the 2016 annual growth survey, which is being debated and which marks the beginning of the commission's annual cycle of economic governance, is again this year with significant weaknesses to the great disappointment of all concerned. based on the commission's winter forecast data on which the programme is based, the priorities of the 2016 annual growth survey are to boost investment activity, implement structural reforms and achieve sustainable fiscal consolidation. it is clear that europe is still in an economically difficult situation, a fact which has a negative impact on the development of the budgets of the individual member states. the average level of government debt relative to gross domestic product in many member states is still far too high. the same is true of the average unemployment rate, which is 9.2 and 10.6 per cent higher than, for example, the united states, which is just under five per cent. the negative upward trend is particularly evident in greece, spain, cyprus and croatia. despite billions of euros invested by the ecb and a host of coordinating and regulatory measures by the commission, the economic cycle in europe is not really picking up. many member states remain far from the objectives of the stability and growth pact.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eures report on the european network of labour market administrations and intermediaries is an eu regulation which, after eleven intensive rounds of trilogue negotiations in a highly constructive spirit by all the groups in this house and also by the commission under the luxembourg presidency, has given us a success which will have lasting effects on european labour markets. while many regions in europe are characterised by high unemployment, two million jobs are left unfilled elsewhere because of the lack of skilled local labour. the eures internet platform can provide easy access to hundreds of thousands of vacancies across europe, even at the initial stage of development. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. eures thus represents a massive boost to labour mobility, which currently stands at only 3% in europe. more people should work in another country. we have worked very hard in parliament on the commission's initiative to reform the eures regulation in its entirety and to optimise it with efficiency and innovation by means of a new eures platform, and we have packed parliament's priorities into almost 700 amendments and over 40 compromises, which were then negotiated in trilogue to a common result. i would like to express my gratitude to the competent group of shadow rapporteurs and their assistants, to the professional empl secretariat and to our active advisers in my own and other groups, not least to mrs ulvskog as the sovereign chairman. i would therefore like to mention the soft values, which are not unimportant when a result is achieved. a spirit of cooperation has been established, together with the commissioner and the council team. without any lazy compromises, the quality of the new eures regulation, a powerful instrument for promoting worker mobility and thus also for reducing unemployment in the eu, was finally demonstrated. we have been able to agree on the following key points of the regulation: in addition to the public labour market administrations, private employment agencies are also involved. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. and never before has the easy-to-use and barrier-free eures internet platform provided so much support to people, especially young people, who want to look for work in another european country because they are unable to do so in their home country. and every jobseeker has been able to easily post their cv online, and their cv can be viewed by any company looking for work from anywhere. eures not only supports jobseekers on the internet platform, but also in person, through 850 highly trained eures advisers in all eu countries. the journey of every jobseeker to his new job will be completely free. very importantly, we have also succeeded in convincing the commission and the council that the active role of the social partners in the eures construction is not only safeguarded but even strengthened. why would you do that? the answer is clear: in a modern european labour market, the interests of both workers and employers must be fully guaranteed. another success of our negotiations: the restructuring explicitly and comprehensively anchored the crossborder partnerships, which had already been recognised as successful, and gave them access to easi. as members of this house, you can therefore give your full support to the new eures regulation, also as an achievement of this european parliament.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in particular, i would like to note that the eures regulation explicitly took up the current debate on two different points. firstly, the free movement of workers in europe is emphasised, confirmed and called for, also in the eures report. the second is that it is demanded that any discrimination - and this is the first - on grounds of nationality and all other criteria should also be prohibited. i think it was very important to learn from the contributions of our colleagues that there is also a substantial contribution for disabled people and that the traineeships and internships have also been given a strong role. we've been taking extra care of that. i would like to conclude by making two requests, which are not demands but which we will repeat very explicitly: the first is to ask the council to encourage the eu member states not to wait until the last moment of the two-year period for eures to be implemented. the citizens of each country deserve to be made perfectly aware of eures by their government. the second request is for the commission to encourage the council to develop targeted communication work for eures. eures existed, but it was not well known, and it must be made known now! i am pleased to make this request and i am glad that prominent representatives of the commission from the negotiations are here. to a successful partnership.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fight against cigarette smuggling has been evaluated economically. the eu budget is missing between 10 and 12 billion euros a year. what has not been assessed is the 700 000 premature deaths each year due to tobacco use. what has not been assessed are the health costs that the systems incur through smuggling of tobacco, but above all through the use of tobacco. that means that we must not only consider whether we want to have a cooperation agreement with a tobacco producer in the future, but we must also consider how we can take joint action to reduce the number of young people who are particularly addicted to cigarettes. what i'm presented with here in this assessment doesn't do any of that. this shows that the project to control the tobacco market has actually failed when those who are to be controlled also decide what has come on the market and say: all right, these are not our products at all. about 80 percent of the products - philip morris itself has found - do not come from them, so they do not have to pay fines. so, there is a tracking system, but it is also evaluated by those who control it themselves, whether it works. this means that we urgently need an independent traceability system, and we have really set the groundwork here with the tobacco products directive of 2014. the people we're supposed to be doing a cooperation agreement with here are the people who are suing us now because they think they don't want an independent tracking system. why don't they want it? because then it would reveal what is really happening every day in this market: that those who are supposed to control are actually the ones who also benefit from the illegal transport into the european union.
madam president, madam vice president, this is the house. the european parliament has been waiting since 2014 for a paper to assess the eu-philip morris international tobacco agreement, also as a basis for further negotiations. the results have not yet been finalised or even published. however, we all know that the tobacco agreement with philip morris international expires on 9 july this year. in a working document of the commission services of 24 february this year, you state that although smuggling of pmi cigarettes has decreased significantly, the eu still misses out on tax revenues of 10 billion a year because smuggling is still a business for the pockets of a few. so my questions are: how can it be ensured that there is no legal uncertainty if the agreement with pmi expires without a transitional solution being found? how do the market developments since 2004 affect the commission's negotiating position, given that originally 75% of the contraband was genuine cigarettes and that only 25% of the contraband is now genuine cigarettes? and how does the commission intend to tackle the commercial practices of cheap whites and illicit whites, when third countries flood the market with cheap cigarettes to the detriment of the eu? (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i do not know whether the general public is inclined to see the negotiations come to a successful conclusion, but at least in the public of various parliaments i would welcome that.
in writing. ‒ the accession of austria and malta to the hague convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters regulates the crossborder service of documents in and from third countries. i agree with this report because it helps to take better account of austrian interests.
in writing. ‒ the accession of austria and malta to the hague convention is intended to regulate the crossborder service of documents in and from third countries. i would have agreed to this report because it helps to ensure that austrian interests are better taken into account.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention would regulate the crossborder service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in and from third countries. although austrian and maltese standards are respected, i believe that the current national system in austria would be sufficient. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the new agreement with san marino, which updates the existing agreement from 2004, is aimed at cooperation in tax matters and aims to help combat tax fraud and tax evasion. i therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ i would have supported this agreement as it represents an important step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the agreement aims to ensure that san marino applies stricter rules and thus enables the tax administrations in the member states to correctly determine the tax obligations concerned.
in writing. ‒ this agreement, which updates the existing 2004 agreement, is designed to allow the automatic exchange of information between the eu and san marino. cooperation in tax matters shall aim to ensure the cross-border application of tax law, to establish tax obligations in a correct and unambiguous manner and to facilitate the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the union covers, inter alia, the examination of cases of fraud and irregularities in the implementation of the union budget. since the prosecution of such cases is of enormous importance, i agree.
in writing. ‒ it is a mere formality, which results in the correction of a technical error. i would therefore have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report, as measures must be taken to prevent and prosecute fraud and irregularities in the implementation of the union budget.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from this report because it sees eures as the solution to the problem of unemployment and transnational job placement and wants to further develop the existing platform without addressing the core issue of voluntary participation.
in writing. ‒ the eures european employment network is to be extended to include a europe-wide database of job applications and cvs. to date, some fundamental shortcomings have been identified in eures, including an incomplete pool of posts and cvs. i would have abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report sees eures as the cure for the lack of jobs, and the platform is to be further developed. voluntary participation in the platform is not discussed. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ in the report on the introduction of urgent autonomous trade measures for tunisia, the european parliament and council regulations are putting the european olive oil industry and its producers at a significant disadvantage. although the vote has been postponed, i should like to make it clear that i am against this report.
in writing. ‒ a temporary unilateral quota for the duty-free import of 35 000 tonnes of olive oil per year from tunisia would inevitably put the european olive oil industry at a considerable disadvantage. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ workers and employees who have lost their jobs as a result of the adjustment of economic conditions to the pressures of globalisation must be supported in their reintegration and requalification. i therefore support the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a budgetary instrument, the globalisation adjustment fund, which provides financial support to workers affected by the far-reaching global structural changes in the world trade pattern. the fund is working precisely where society needs it most, and that is why i would have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in the years 2000 to 2010, companies in wallonia in particular were experiencing difficulties and had to lay off employees. hainaut in particular is a difficult labour market. the high unemployment rate must be effectively countered. the report proposes effective financial assistance and is therefore worthy of support.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth survey serves as a catalyst for a debate at european level involving national parliaments, the social partners and society to analyse the combination of monetary and structural policies that the european union should implement in the coming months and how this can be better coordinated at euro-zone level. we are critical of various aspects of this policy. i therefore abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ i would have voted against this report because the original purpose of the european semester, the safeguarding of the euro's stability criteria, is no longer at the forefront. instead, we are talking about a centralised control body for the planned economy. the commission then intervenes in the budgetary planning of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth survey serves as a catalyst for a debate at european level, involving national parliaments, the social partners and society, to analyse the combination of monetary and structural policies that the european union should implement in the coming months and how this could be better coordinated at euro-zone level. i am very critical of various aspects of this european policy. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i will abstain on this proposal. while it provides for a differentiation between the areas of responsibility at european and national levels, it does call for greater influence by european semester officials, which is in direct contradiction to important measures such as the call for more democratic participation.
in writing. ‒ i would have abstained on this proposal. while it distinguishes between tasks which fall within the european and national levels of responsibility, it also calls for greater influence by european semester officials.
in writing. ‒ the report clearly separates the tasks of the commission and the member states without calling for additional competences at eu level. on the other hand, he is in favour of programmes which i am rather critical of, such as the youth guarantee, the strengthening of the influence of the officials of the european semester. this is in direct contradiction to greater democratic accountability. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i reject this report because it envisages more bureaucracy and administration in connection with the european semester.
in writing. ‒ the report does criticise the gap between sme and large enterprise funding approaches, which creates a disadvantage. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. ‒ the development of the internal market is to be welcomed, but the european semester is to be included in all matters. the report also supports the various measures taken by the commission on the internal market strategy, such as the energy union, the capital union, etc., which i cannot support, and that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i cannot agree with the resolution on the agreement. in its present form it not only provides for a desirable deepening of trade relations but also includes points concerning migration, which i partly reject.
in writing. ‒ the regulations listed in the report on the introduction of urgent autonomous trade measures for tunisia are putting the european olive oil industry at a significant disadvantage. i would have voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ while further deepening the association agreement with tunisia would strengthen economic cooperation, especially in the fields of knowledge and goods, it would also lead to increased migration, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman does a great job of focusing on transparency in administration. the ombudsman's office has a strong track record of taking own initiative in investigations, has introduced new rules on whistleblowing and is calling for more transparency in the institutions and in international negotiations, clinical trials or lobbying. i therefore agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ i would have voted for this report as the ombudsman's work is very commendable and is characterised by new rules on whistleblowing and the call for more transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the work of the european ombudsman is in our interest. it has, for example, focused on transparency (particularly in the administration), taken initiative in investigations, introduced new rules on whistleblowing, wants more transparency in eu bodies/lobbying/clinical trials and is investigating transparency in the ttip agreement.
in writing. - i will abstain on this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ while the report contains legitimate and important criticisms, it does not address the shortcomings of the transfer union. i would therefore have abstained, since not all the critical points were mentioned.
in writing. ‒ the ecb 's objective in this report is to achieve monetary union; the commission is proposing to create a transfer union from north to south. the enf group has already voted against this in the econ committee. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ australia and new zealand are two highly developed countries with which a free trade agreement would be highly desirable, but i abstained on the resolution as there is already a high degree of agreement or regulation in the area of economic and political relations between the eu and these two countries, such as agriculture and food standards.
in writing. ‒ as we see how such negotiations are conducted and what dangers they bring to the citizen, especially in ttip and ceta, i am critical of the start of further negotiations on free trade agreements. i would therefore have voted against.
in writing. ‒ free trade agreements between equally developed countries are not bad in principle. but first, we must analyse the effects. the crucial question is whether the european economy would benefit from such an agreement. the question has not yet been answered conclusively, so i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ while i am explicitly in favour of a ban on the illegal trade in pets, i am critical of the commission's harmonisation of legislation through delegated acts in this area. that is why i abstain from this report.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution deals with the pan-european exchange of data on the registration of cats and dogs. the implementation of the information exchange would be a very important step in view of the increasing numbers of illegal pet trade. that is why i would have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ firstly, the resolution condemns the illegal trade in pets, which is welcome, but it is intended to do so by means of delegated acts of the european commission. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the motion for a resolution. what really moved me was the fact that saudi arabia's role in this conflict is not being downplayed or ignored.
in writing. ‒ i would have supported this report because yemen is in dire need of support because of its current humanitarian situation. yemen is one of the poorest countries in the world, which is why i am in favour of aid being given directly to the people.
in writing. ‒ the resolution contains important points for improving the situation in yemen, especially by including saudi arabia, which plays a central role in the conflict. that is why i support the motion for a resolution.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank mr tarabella and all those who have taken part in the negotiations, because i believe that something good has come out of it. i am also pleased that the commission has taken a step forward, that a budget has been increased in the interests of the people - especially the children. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are all things that could be accomplished with this program. i am not 100% in favour of the compromise, of course, because i do not think that chocolate milk, etc., is necessarily part of it, but we have managed to introduce measures in these areas too: that only the milk component is promoted here, that, as my colleagues have already pointed out, there must be no additional sweeteners, no artificial flavourings, etc., in the future. i think these are very, very important steps. i would also like to say to mr agnew that he may not have read the treaty of lisbon correctly. article 168 states precisely that health in all policies is a responsibility, a task, and that it is also a task to take health into account in all policies. i think this is where it's happening. it's in agriculture, it's in education, and it's especially essential for health care. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the programme is exactly that. it's about making sure that healthy, fresh, unprocessed and, above all, local food finds its way into schools. this is the essential aspect of this health, nutrition and education programme.
in writing. if you want to promote healthy food in schools, you must also use common sense in the legislation. i am therefore very pleased that common sense has prevailed over the moral apostasy of some self-styled health politicians in the negotiations on the new aid programmes for school milk and school fruit! austrian products such as cocoa, fruit milk and fruit yoghurt remain eligible. we have also been able to secure an increase in european funding to a total of eur 250 million. it is important to promote dairy products in schools and to raise awareness of local food and farming from an early age. at school, our youngest children are growing up with home-made products. school milk in particular is a contribution to healthy, conscious eating and may be the last barrier to cola and chocolate bars.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i hope i will be tolerated as much as you, if i go as far as your colleague in the group. a recent study estimates that the global use of antibiotics in livestock production will increase to about 130 000 tonnes by 2030. on the other hand, the trend in the distribution of antibiotics within the union is thankfully declining. it is therefore right to encourage our domestic farming to be responsible and careful in the use of medicines in animal husbandry. but it is much more important to include the use of antibiotics in trade agreements. in the united states, for example, the use of pharmaceuticals in livestock production is increasing rapidly, according to a report in the neue zürcher zeitung. food safety and health require a global approach by the union. our consumers do not want meat contaminated by pharmaceutical cocktails - not even through the back door of ttip.
the commission has already done so. even if in the previous debate some colleagues denied that health policy is a european matter, this debate has shown quite clearly that health policy is a policy shared by the member states, a shared responsibility of the member states and the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and here this animal health package - the prevention of disease, of disease transmission - has shown very clearly that we can only fight this together, that we need this cohesion at european level. animal health requires that we have a working animal welfare system, requires that we have good animal husbandry practices that need to be monitored, that need to be controlled and for which we need common legislation. we need common european regulations on the use of medicinal products, veterinary medicinal products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the developing countries. a matter of public safety, a matter of public health will be functioning animal welfare, will be functioning animal health.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask a question to mr sarvamaa. we have olaf at the moment. what is wrong with olaf that it cannot provide this service? why do we need a new agency or redesign olaf?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. our everyday lives are becoming digital: no service or process remains analogue, no business, no consumer remains unaffected by the digital transformation. this also applies to the market for mass data, i.e. big data. big data is growing at an annual rate of around 40% or eur 15.4 billion, seven times faster than the ict market. big data, cloud services and the internet of things are key drivers of europe's competitiveness - a competition in which the us is still clearly ahead, with much more industrial capacity and better financing opportunities. the potential applications of big data are diverse. whether it's the new ibm software that uses big data analysis to distinguish genuine refugees from terrorists, to detect terrorist cells and to deter imminent attacks, or self-driving cars, or optimizing viticulture through iot-enabled real-time information about soil and climate conditions, or precision agriculture, where harvesting machines record yields with precise gps positioning, soil-based sensors measure nutrient and water content, and satellites provide increasingly accurate data on plant and soil composition, or even just industry 4.0. big data holds enormous potential for the telecommunications and automotive industries, for climate policy and resource efficiency, for health, energy and intelligent transport systems, and much more. the extent to which the potential of big data is realised depends on investment in digital infrastructure and research and development. developing digital skills and a robust regulatory framework, particularly in relation to data protection and data security big data creates growth and jobs in europe, 3% of gdp by 2020. let's take this opportunity.
i have to say, madam president, i think we live in a fascinating time. we're moving from the real world to the virtual world. the real world is mirrored in the virtual world, and it's a big challenge to find the algorithms and the mathematical foundation to help us navigate in this new world. so i think it's necessary that we also create a new platform for mathematics, computer science and algorithms - best enabling technology - in our framework research programme to stay at the leading edge of the world. i think it's clear that we currently have about 200 billion emails a day. knowledge is being generated that has never existed in this time. we have 800 million tweets, we have over 1 billion facebook posts, we have 30 billion whatsapp messages and we have 2.6 billion mobile phones. the bits that we're producing right now are more than the number of grains of sand on this planet. this, of course, creates enormous opportunities. we see that the amount of data has doubled every year in the last few years. clearly, the volume of data, the analysis of data, the finding out what's behind that data -- that's the new gold, and that's going to secure the new jobs of the future. i therefore congratulate commissioner ansip on this strategy. we must be faster, better and, as he said, more efficient.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i wanted to say thank you because i think it really gets the point across. do you think that with new search engines, we could also open up opportunities for citizens and for privacy to track where their data ends up and what the benefits of their data are accordingly? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
rapporteur.– madam president, the final goal of gender mainstreaming is a tool to realise real gender equality in our society. to reach such a result, concrete ideas of how to effectively put in place gender equality has to reach the hearts and minds of people. gender equality needs to become a natural part of daily life, but the truthful acceptance of gender equality means major changes in mindsets and behaviour, not only concerning the treatment of women, but also concerning the understanding of equality between humans in general. it is the fear of such broad and deep implications that is the reason why it is still so widely opposed. it is mostly women who engage themselves, lead the discussion and do the essential work toward strengthening the scientific and strategic base for the steps which are still so necessary to implement gender mainstreaming into everybody’s reality. therefore, i would like to warmly thank all the colleagues who contributed to the report, co-operating in a highly constructive and fair manner. i would like to name them: julie ward, sirpa pietikäinen, eleanora forenza and monika vana. only though productive and horizontal cooperation do we now have such a shared and balanced text. however, for public opinion, gender mainstreaming is still an unknown and generally contested concept. in practical terms, the concept means the integration of a gender perspective into the preparation and design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies. it includes and needs spending programmes with a view to promoting equality between women and men. the report presents undeniable reasons for the necessary steps of building awareness and changing realities. the three main points why we need to emphasise gender mainstreaming are the following: firstly, gender mainstreaming is a process to promote gender equality in the policy field, and no policy is exempted since the need for a balanced effect of policies is horizontal. this is one of the true dimensions of the concept. the other concerns the representation of women and men in the given policy area and for it to definitely make a difference to the policy outcome. unfortunately, international recognition did not give this concept a concrete impact on the decision-making process in both dimensions. secondly, parliament – further to several resolutions on gender mainstreaming – gradually developed a gender mainstreaming structure. however, analysis shows that the system is fragmented and not particularly efficient. it is time for corrective measures, as well as an efficient feedback and evaluation mechanism, if we want to prevent this resolution from remaining a dead letter. finally, the best way to promote gender equality is to set a good example, to live its essence, and to show how it is done. gender mainstreaming and gender equality are principles that are enshrined in the treaties. who, if not the eu institutions, could be the best example when it comes to implementation? that is why we tried in the report to build an interinstitutional network involving, among others, the council and the commission. i personally believe that gender—sensitive policymakers should consider how gender relates to the content of policy measures to gain a better understanding of how women and men would benefit from gender equality. parliament is not even close to reaching the targets in both dimensions. i hope this report will be an instrument to raise awareness on the topic and initiate the implementation phase to reach more and more ambitious targets.
i have to say, madam president, so, in contrast to my predecessor, i would like to agree with the rapporteur, mrs mlinar, that the report which will be put to the vote tomorrow, which is very important and very appropriate for international women's day, will hopefully be adopted by a large majority, as will the femm committee. it shows the great need for action we have in this house in the context of gender mainstreaming, whether it is in the representation of women by increasing the proportion of women - not only in the workforce but also in committees and committee chairs - but also, for example, the proposal to introduce gender impact assessments, our own decisions and decisions here in this house, but also the implementation of gender budgeting, as it has actually been foreseen for a long time in council decisions, but also in the european parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament.
the commission has already done so. the european steel industry suffers from high energy prices, which are further exacerbated by the consequences of emissions trading, in particular the increased carbon leakage measures. energy prices in europe are twice as high as in the usa, due to taxes, levies and subsidies. in addition, the us steel industry has managed to reduce its co2 emissions without the ets and the government is not considering granting china market economy status automatically. the chinese steel producers are sitting on 400 million tonnes of overcapacity, a result of government intervention and a planned economy. this is 2.5 times the eu steel consumption of the previous year and the situation is worsening. because the economic outlook for china is currently declining, which means less domestic demand and more export pressure. just last week, the u.s. department of commerce imposed anti-dumping measures on cold-rolled steel from china. in the case of china, the penalty duty is 265%, while the european commission's anti-dumping measures are only 14 to 16%. the world steel association already assumed before the ets and possible market economy status interplay that europe would have to cut its industry in half. we shall see in the next ten months whether the steel industry in europe can survive.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as of 8 march 2016, women are still significantly behind in socioeconomic terms, and women in the economy are significantly behind in terms of pay and career opportunities although this varies across the member states of the european union. and this is despite the fact that women have long been overtaken in terms of educational attainment. numerous studies show that companies with female leaders perform better and that generations of women politicians have fought for inclusion and gender equality. women in the european union earn on average 16% less than men, with a wide range of gender pay gaps across member states, from 2.9% in slovenia, to 6.5% in italy, to 22.9% in austria and 28.3% in estonia. much of this decline can be explained by children and, consequently, by a high proportion of parttime workers among women. almost one in three women with a child in the eu work part-time, but only one in 20 men do. in austria - my home country - two thirds of all mothers work part-time. and the more children a woman has, the more likely she is to work part-time. the same is true of management positions. studies show that shareholder returns are on average 53% higher and profit margins are 42% better when at least one woman is on the board. a study by the prestigious peterson institute for economics in washington found that a 30% increase in the number of women in senior management leads to a 15% increase in sales. in addition to sales and profits, the average stock market value increases by 5% when women are in the top management. so the data and facts speak a clear language. let us increase the incentives for women to be equally represented in economic life!
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, we finally have a report which is comprehensive and balanced. this is a great achievement and was possible only thanks to the very constructive spirit of the rapporteur, ms honeyball, and the majority of the shadows, with the aim of recognising and protecting vulnerable women. female migration is not a new phenomenon, but it is increasing, as is the vulnerability of female refugees and migrants to human trafficking, exploitation, discrimination and abuse. however, some colleagues think that the best way to celebrate 8 march is to deprive women refugees and asylum seekers of, among other things, sexual health and reproductive rights and deny them the possibility of a faster and more efficient family reunification process. the division in the house clearly shows that the challenge ahead is not the refugee crisis, but is in fact a political crisis. in difficult times, gender equality and women’s rights are often neglected by organisations, decision makers and civil society and considered as a detail, a luxury, or, in fact, a complication. when in crisis mode, it is more difficult to see the gender perspective, but this does not mean that we can tolerate the fact that the eu is not protecting fundamental and human rights. women seeking asylum need specific support, since we know that many reception centres are overcrowded and lack adequate lighting and separate spaces for single women and families with children. i hope that this report will be perceived as a guideline for the work of the commission and the council in order to have a truly holistic approach, also tackling the causes of violence against women, including smuggling and trafficking, and integrating more women in peace processes in order to avoid and solve the conflicts that are at the origin of every refugee crisis.
i am not going to go into detail. we're running out of time. i have now, during the round of group speakers, allowed blue cards, but i will not do so again. i'm gonna tell you right now so you won't be disappointed if i don't take you on.
i am not going to go into detail. i have to tell you two things now because of the time that has passed. i have already said that i will no longer accept blue cards, and it will not be possible to carry out the 'catch-the-eye' procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a guest of honour at 11.30 a.m. and then we have 50 minutes for voting. i beg your understanding.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. (the sitting was suspended for a moment.) written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. ‒ the proposal to reject the council position on the basis of the bureaucracy currently unforeseeable for small and medium-sized farmers is only partially welcome. the council proposal does, however, contain good approaches to animal welfare in principle, so i shall abstain on the proposal.
in writing. ‒ while the report risks more red tape, it is essentially a good approach to the more sustainable use of animal antibiotics. in addition to animal health, human health also plays an important role here. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ overall, a good approach, but also associated with bureaucracy that is not foreseeable for small and medium-sized farmers at present. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i support the present bill. it not only helps to make schoolchildren eat healthier food, but it also supports local agriculture.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for more fruit and vegetables in our schools, as well as dairy products, to provide healthy diets for school children. i voted for this report because the additional funds will also benefit our dairy farmers.
in writing. ‒ the proposal not only contributes to a healthier diet for our schoolchildren, but also supports our local farmers. that is why i support this motion.
in writing. ‒ the pse-eu delegation supported the report on the organisation of port services and financial transparency of ports. the essential point for us is that the liberalisation of port services is no longer possible. the protection of workers' rights and the right to strike were enshrined. in addition, the social democrats have adopted a new article on training standards for dock workers and have been able to push through the strengthening of social dialogue.
in writing. ‒ the pse-eu delegation supported the report on the organisation of port services and financial transparency of ports. the essential point for us is that the liberalisation of port services is no longer possible. the protection of workers' rights and the right to strike were enshrined. in addition, the social democrats have adopted a new article on training standards for dock workers and have been able to push through the strengthening of social dialogue.
in writing. ‒ the final vote has been postponed, so the report will now go to the trilogue. the 150 amendments do not really allow us to judge what the proposal will look like at the end of the vote. however, it is clear that this is a clear indication that the rapporteur has accepted a strong polarization. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. ‒ the report goes straight to the trilogue, as the final vote has been postponed. the final form of the proposal is therefore not foreseeable, and this has led me to oppose this report.
in writing. ‒ the pse-eu delegation supported the report on the organisation of port services and financial transparency of ports. it is essential for us that no further liberalisation of port services is possible. the protection of workers' rights was strengthened and the right to strike was enshrined in the text. in addition, we social democrats were able to establish a new article on training standards for dock workers and to push through the strengthening of social dialogue.
in writing. ‒ the benefits of such a regulation would be a more efficient, better connected and more sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network, but a new regulation would also mean more harmonised eu law, yet one more authority. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ harmonised indices of consumer prices are intended to measure inflation in a comparable way in all member states. to this end, a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices and the house price index is needed at union and national levels. i shall abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the harmonised indices of consumer prices aim to make inflation more measurable in all member states. this is understandable in principle, but not absolutely necessary, since parameters for measuring price stability already exist. i abstained from my vote.
in writing. ‒ harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) are designed to measure inflation in a harmonised way in all member states. the aim is to establish a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and the house price index (hpi) at union and national level. the hicp is designed to assess price stability. the effects are unpredictable. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report is broadly balanced and supports the view that the use of funds should be better monitored and used and that the fight against fraud should be strengthened at eu level. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. however, improved fraud prevention must not be a back door to the creation of a european public prosecutor's office. i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates stronger action against fraud at all levels of the eu and stricter controls on the use of funds. i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative.
in writing. ‒ in general, the report is very balanced and supports the view that funds should be better monitored and used and that fraud should be better tackled at eu level. i support this report in that respect.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the introduction and implementation of gender mainstreaming in all policy areas, committee work and delegations in the european parliament. i am sorry that the report does not include any training for members and assistants and i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the implementation of gender mainstreaming at all levels of the eu and its policies. the aim is to provide specific training and education for the employees. i think it is a waste of money and i have spoken against this report.
in writing. ‒ the argument that an increase in gender mainstreaming in the eu institutions has a positive impact on gender mainstreaming in the member states is more than questionable. i also oppose gender mainstreaming, and so i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the implementation of accelerated administrative procedures for refugees. the special protection for female migrants and the possibility of sexual health protection are welcome, but i am against undifferentiated immigration in the context of simplified administrative procedures and have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report includes the implementation of accelerated administrative procedures for refugees, in addition to the special protection of female refugees. the first is welcome, but i reject the shortened administrative procedures, because they do not guarantee a thorough examination. i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ of course, the protection of women is of the utmost importance, but the rapporteur is trying to use this as a pretext to facilitate family reunification. these family reunifications would further aggravate the situation in the eu. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ women and children are at extreme risk of being forced to flee: physical violence, abuse and sexual exploitation are just some of the risks women face. i believe that the protection of refugees, and particularly the protection of women on the run, is non-negotiable. this applies not only to the countries of origin but also to the routes of escape and the countries of arrival. legal means of escape could prevent thousands of women and children from being driven into the hands of unscrupulous traffickers. in addition, in refugee camps and communities in the countries of arrival, the framework conditions must be created to respond to the needs of women who may be traumatised. i think that the demands made in the report are a good basis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the union is now trying to buy turkey's favour with billions of dollars and is making a big mistake. turkey is not a desirable partner in the syrian peace process, either politically or militarily, and certainly not from a religious point of view. the fight against the kurdish independence movement was extended by turkey to syrian territory months ago, with the help of pro-turkish militias which move freely in the border area. turkey began firing on syrian territory in mid-february in violation of international law. washington did send a note of protest to ankara, demanding an immediate halt to the attacks. but i wonder where the union's reaction is. instead of imposing measures on the erdoğan regime for oppressing minorities and weakening a military partner, they continue to bid. this is double-talk, it is false and it is certainly not the way to peace in syria.
madam president, i would like to hear an honest debate. in the communication we are still discussing the implementation of the measures foreseen in the relocation decisions. it did not work. we cannot ask a country like greece to build hotspots and make them operational if refugees are not redistributed. 536 persons out of the foreseen 66 400; this is next to nothing. i am convinced of two things. firstly, we should stop trying to outsource eu problems and instead tackle the refugee crisis by delivering a genuine european approach. secondly, we need concrete measures on how to establish solidarity and share responsibilities, starting now. the commission proposal to fully restore the functioning of schengen has been endorsed by the heads of state and government, but my fear is that this is just a vague engagement and the deadline is too far off. we need a holistic approach, not only on paper. schengen could be saved by defining common border management but also legal and safe ways of working. i am looking forward to a blue card proposal that will allow a concrete discussion on legal economic migration.
i have to say, madam president, the present crisis has also arisen because our instruments at european level have not worked, because we have not had a european migration policy and because dublin has never worked. it is positive that there is now a comprehensive package of legislative measures to be discussed. i am convinced that the european parliament will support the commission in discussing these matters constructively and critically and also swiftly. but it will take time, and the problem is that we have to act now. i was in idomeni a week ago today. i can't get these images out of my head. it was horrible what i saw. the people are desperate, many are homeless, and women and children are particularly affected. this week the situation has worsened: heavy rains have added to the site. today i have received another call for help from idomeni: there are now 15,000 people, the situation is chaotic, it could explode at any moment. commissioner avramopoulos, i told you in september that i had written to you and that far too little had been done in this respect. if it weren't for the local population, the situation would have exploded long ago. we now have a council regulation which provides a legal framework. i urge you to act, because we have no time to lose. we must act, as the portuguese government has done, by doubling its quota. since yesterday, refugees have been brought from greece to portugal. that is the right answer to this difficult crisis.
in writing. i am disappointed in several ways by the outcome of the eu-turkey summit: it is disappointing that there has not been a final, sustainable solution to the refugee issue. it is disappointing that europe has once again shown its weakness, not its strength. and it is disappointing that so little has been said about the plight of refugees, and instead so much has been said about the 'end of the wink'. i regret to say that there has again been no decision on how asylum seekers can come to europe legally. for months now there has been talk of setting up so-called hotspots in greece, where refugees are registered and then distributed throughout europe. not only are these facilities stuck in the sand; if we want to prevent refugees from coming to greece at all, these registration zones are being used to absurd effect - or at least they should be set up in turkey with greater urgency. the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the protection of the rights of minorities. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's accession negotiations are not delayed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commissioner herself has said that the competition that exists is usually unfair. it is about wages, the cost of labour and also the non-payment of social security contributions, so unfortunately it is not about the great ideas or innovations of companies. i therefore have a specific question to put to you in this context of the proposal, which is super important and which i think is good that it is finally on the table. in austria, contracts are often awarded to companies which are ultimately the cheapest suppliers. these low-cost providers do work with workers who are posted for two years. so, here's what happens. a1 certificate that social security contributions are paid in the country of origin. but they're not getting paid, and we're not getting a handle on it because cooperation doesn't work across borders. will these changes, which you are proposing, finally bring about the interplay between the posting of workers directive, the enforcement directive and the social security authorities?
i have to say, madam president, first of all, on international women's day, we have already earmarked the female business angels for the 2016 budget, and we hope that this project will be continued accordingly. women and families could play a major role in migrant entrepreneurship. i am therefore pleased that we will continue and strengthen this programme in 2017. 'strengthen and continue' is also a message to the heads of state or government. my message would be: in the multiannual framework programme up to 2020, it is now time to increase from 1% to 1.1%, that is to say 0.1% of gdp to be allocated to the refugee crisis. i believe that this would be a framework which is not too large and which could ultimately be used by the member states to use the funds where they are most efficient. i believe that turkey and greece need not be seen as one. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of refugees are respected and that the rights of asylum seekers are protected. i would also imagine that not only member states but also ngos would apply for these funds in order to achieve the best possible solution. so we have a lot of alternatives, and you shouldn't automatically go one way. we need options.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by expressing my anger. the european parliament has been deeply disturbed by the fact that a phalanx of austrian meps, consisting of the two government groups social democrats and christian democrats, the spö and the övp , together with the two left-wing parties, have jointly drafted a declaration expressly welcoming the outcome of this recent eu summit. this means that the door to europe should remain open. this means that billions of european taxpayers' money will be diverted to turkey. this means that from june onwards, visa-free travel for turks in the eu will be made possible here. and that means that turkey should be steered further towards eu membership. this behaviour of the spö and the övp will be discussed in austria and is an internal austrian problem. what is happening in germany is not just a problem of domestic politics. the behaviour of german chancellor merkel, which threatens to drag an entire continent down the drain, is something which affects the whole of europe. if german chancellor merkel is so determined to show more heart for people in arabia and north africa than for her own countrymen, then fine, then as a refugee worker she should perhaps go to arabia or north africa. as chancellor of the federal republic of germany, she is no longer viable because her decisions affect the entire continent. this summit is to be rejected. we want control of our borders back in austria. and if the situation continues, that turkey becomes a member of the european union, i want a referendum in austria too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. this summit has shown that it is the lack of solidarity and of shared responsibility for the women, men and children who are fleeing bombings, murder and massacres and seeking refuge with us that is leaving the eu to the increasingly authoritarian turkish regime. it is the governments of the member states that are moving further and further away from european values and from the values of humanity which should be the basis of the action of governments on this continent. unfortunately, the government of my home country, austria, is the pioneer of this disgrace for this europe. i am very pleased - and rightly so - that the heads of delegation of the four pro-european austrian delegations made a joint statement here in the ep yesterday, saying that unilateralism is wrong and that we must act together. as the un high commissioner for refugees, mr grandi, said yesterday, fences and walls are not the solution, they only increase suffering. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations with the council. it's the suffering of the people that's disturbing. only joint solutions can move us forward and actually help refugees.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. yes, it is necessary that we talk to turkey. she's our neighbor. a very important neighbor. neighbors are not to be chosen, but it is wise to have good relations with neighbors: respect, honesty, and reliability are required. but there are still many questions to be answered: what is the state of the rule of law in turkey? how serious is your fight against organized crime and corruption? what is the situation with respect for human rights, freedom of the press, freedom of expression, and is our neighbour prepared to end the war in his own country and to resolve the kurdish question peacefully? we will not only get satisfactory answers. yes, we must cooperate with our neighbours, also in the interests of greece, which is otherwise facing a humanitarian catastrophe. but this must be in accordance with international law, and it must not be a bluff.
in writing. ‒ this is a codification of the existing legal situation, to which there are no objections. i therefore agree with the proposal.
in writing. ‒ in my view, there is no objection to the present codification of the existing legal situation. i therefore agree with the proposal.
in writing. ‒ there are no objections to codification. there will be no change in the content. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this is a codification of the existing legal situation, to which there are no objections. i therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ this too is a codification of the existing legal situation and i do not see any objections to this. i therefore vote in favour of the present proposal.
in writing. ‒ there are no objections to codification. there will be no change in the content. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report provides for an amendment to the existing 2004 agreement on combating tax fraud and tax evasion. i agree with the suggestions for improvement contained therein.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to update the existing 2004 agreement on combating tax fraud and tax evasion and contains some suggestions for improvement, which i agree with.
in writing. ‒ the agreement represents an important step in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. it updates the 2004 agreement, which ensured that andorra applies arrangements equivalent to those in an eu directive on the taxation of interest income. the report is therefore to be approved.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of mr fausto parente as his expertise is internationally recognised and his previous professional experience makes him well qualified for the position at eiopa.
in writing. ‒ parente, currently head of the regulatory directorate of the italian insurance supervisory institute, has had a remarkable career to date, both nationally and internationally. there are no objections to his appointment.
in writing. ‒ while stronger guidelines on the protection of children in criminal proceedings are needed in many cases, they are already well implemented in most countries and do not require any special consideration by the union. i therefore abstain from this vote.
in writing. ‒ in most countries, the child protection directives are already well implemented and do not require additional consideration by the eu. i abstained from my vote.
in writing. ‒ the guidelines on the protection of children in criminal proceedings are in principle to be welcomed. however, eu interference in national criminal laws/criminal procedure laws is to be rejected. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the report clearly aims to reduce constraints on the union budget. he sees the eu budget as a key factor in overcoming the current crises. from this point of view, the multiannual financial framework should be relaxed and the ceilings for payments, as they are now set annually, should be abolished in order to give the budget more flexibility. although there is a flexibility instrument, the appropriations for payments for the specific instruments are intended to be calculated beyond the ceilings of the mff. the ultimate objective must be to close the gap between poor and rich eu countries, which in turn could provide incentives for structural reforms, which are urgently needed. i think that this has been missed in the present report, which is why i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ the report considers the eu budget as one of the main factors in overcoming the multi-crisis (euro, finances, growth, refugees). the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the budget, and it is in this spirit that the multiannual financial framework should be relaxed and the ceilings for payments, as they are now set annually, should be abolished, so as to allow more flexibility in the budget. although there is a flexibility instrument, the appropriations for payments for the specific instruments (the flexibility instrument, the european union solidarity fund, the european globalisation adjustment fund and the emergency reserve) are intended to be calculated beyond the ceilings of the mff. the report calls for the use of the structural and investment funds to implement the country-specific recommendations, introducing more flexibility in the deficit calculation of member states for certain expenditure and abolishing the ceiling on payments from the annual eu budget, which is not the purpose of the recommendations and which can never create real stability. lastly, stresses that the union budget allowed for an immediate response to the crisis and should be strongly corrected upwards in order to effectively finance the implementation of the eu policies to deal with this crisis, and stresses that it should serve as part of a european solution to overcome this emergency in the future; that is why i reject this report.
in writing. - i will abstain on this report. it is a very fundamental proposal for improving the legislative process, interinstitutional cooperation, transparency, and the review of the need for new laws and regulations, but it should have proposed more far-reaching measures.
in writing. ‒ while the report contains generally laudable suggestions for improvement of the legislative process and interinstitutional cooperation, its proposals do not go far enough in many respects. i have abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ fundamental improvements concern the legislative process and the cooperation or work between the eu institutions - parliament, commission and council. there is more transparency, there should be stricter controls on whether new laws are needed, etc. but we should have gone further and we had to. another opportunity wasted. nevertheless, the 'community method' was strengthened and thus centralism. so abstinence is the best option.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the tobacco agreement between the commission and pmi. i particularly welcome the call for the combined use of the tobacco products directive and the who protocol and, in addition, for the suspension of renewals of such agreements as they do not add any significant value.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the tobacco agreement between the commission and the pmi group. i welcome the call to bring the tobacco products directive into line with the who protocol and to suspend the renewal of such agreements as long as they do not bring significant added value.
in writing. ‒ although the commission estimates that smuggled pmi cigarettes decreased by 85% between 2006 and 2014, overall this decrease in smuggled pmi products has not led to a general decrease in illicit products on the eu market. it is therefore questionable whether the agreement has had a positive impact on the health of eu citizens and thus fulfilled its original purpose.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe will not be left without a stone. i read that in a very good comment the other day, and it gave me a lot to think about and it touched me deeply. i am particularly pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment. so much of what you hear is actually a borderline dangerous naivety that is coming out here. when you look at the crisis, this migration crisis, the processes and the totally uncoordinated and totally mindless approach of the people in charge in the european union, you know that it is precisely these people who have played a very significant part in making the crisis as severe as we are now seeing it. the situation at present is even more proof that the individual member states, which can also make good use of their powers, have far more problem-solving powers than the european union. in austria we already see that the government is adopting ideas from the freedom party one by one, and this is no longer a big cover-up, but these ideas are being adopted and implemented there. the actions of the merkel union have brought us - the european union and europe - into a major crisis. the only solutions that we see and that we see working are coming mainly from eastern states. and here 's a little statistic . for every 100 asylum applications from algerians in austria last year, 155 crimes were committed - not harmless crimes, mind you. and you know, it's been mentioned today that 75 percent of asylum seekers are men. we all remember cologne with horror. i ask you, is this how we want it? in my home town of graz, women can no longer even walk through the city park unmolested. is that what we want? i would like to thank viktor orbán very much for preventing this rather windy deal with turkey, at least in the first round.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my predecessors have already mentioned the problems: corruption, lack of media freedom and lack of quality of the democratic process. these shortcomings can be explained by the country's major problems but they do not excuse them. the biggest challenge for the country was undoubtedly the refugee crisis. almost all the refugees have traveled through the country on their way to europe. skopje has met these challenges with the help of the eu. it is quite contradictory to assess whether it has really met these european standards. i speak from experience, having travelled the balkan route several times. on the one hand, it is worth noting that there is a great willingness of the population to help. ngos, such as the interfaith legis, are working to provide care and legal support. on the other hand, there are serious reports of professional smuggling networks operating. on my last visit to gevgelija last week, i was confronted by reports of arbitrary treatment and physical violence by border authorities. such incidents can be used as a gauge of the country's capacity for integration, but should also make those who believe that the country has a central role in the closure of the balkan route think again.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, montenegro as such is, yes, something of a success story. it is a country which has for quite some time now been in a negotiation process with the european union, and there has been quite some progress. the report by mr tannock – and i would like to thank him for this – is a well drafted and well balanced one, with lots of emphasis on the fight against corruption and organised crime, which is important, the reform of the judiciary, media freedom, threats to critical ngos, and also the rights of minorities. for example, there has been progress for lgbti people but also setbacks – for example, no pride was held in nikšić last year. but i would like to refer more to the critical situation at the moment in montenegro, a crisis that we are seeing, a political crisis. i would like to hail the small sister party of mine, pozitivna montenegro, which has made a very constructive proposal in order to make sure that all parties are included in transitional government and that the electoral laws will be improved to make sure that free and fair elections are possible in the autumn. i hope they will be successful because it is important to make sure that this process towards elections is one where the citizens really feel that their vote is going to be listened to and heard and will count.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. we have already passed the animal health act this week, which was intended primarily to show the link between animal health, animal welfare and public health, through good animal husbandry practices and the prudent use of veterinary medicines. in the spirit of prudent use of veterinary medicines, this medicines act was also negotiated by madame grossetête and all the shadow rapporteurs. i am very grateful that these compromises have been negotiated, because they really do carry forward the idea that it is necessary to look at animal health and human health together, especially in the use of medicines. we must distinguish between veterinary medicines and human medicines and keep those specifically for humans really for humans too. but we also need to encourage innovation. we must help ensure that those who prescribe these medicines, in particular, do not necessarily sell them and make money from them, but that there are very clear rules in this context. it was also necessary that we ban the internet trade, especially for antibiotics. this package of legislation contains much to be proud of. it will allow for the improvement of availability, it will allow for innovation. it is also intended to help to continue the fight against antibiotic resistance at all levels, including veterinary prescription. in this sense, i am convinced that we are on the right track and i hope that we shall have a broad consensus in the vote.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to have this exchange of views with you today. i want to start with two points. the first has been raised many times today, namely the right of women to their own bodies and thus all questions of reproduction. it also means having to make the decision whether or not to have a child and to take all the accompanying measures, that is, examinations. but if a judgment is made in the sense that you know that the child has been harmed, then you must also be accompanied in the decision you make afterwards. that's the one point. the second point, which is very important to me, is to combat the virus. i think we need to rely on research in prevention, prevention and then also in treatment. but we have to be careful now, in prevention, that excessive, uncontrolled use of biocides doesn't actually have the opposite effect -- that while it may reduce the risk of zika virus on the one hand, it also brings new risks from biocides in general, not just to the health of individuals, but to our biodiversity in general. i therefore ask that all measures be balanced.
in writing. ‒ the proposal would put european olive oil producers at a disadvantage and allow tunisian competitors to flood the market with a similarly named, cheaper, but less quality-controlled oil. i shall vote against the present proposal for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that in the interests and in support of the olive growers of southern europe, this proposal should be rejected in principle. the european union is not prepared to accept any further rapprochement between tunisia and the european union.
in writing. ‒ i think it was the right decision to postpone the vote and to start the trilogue directly. the rapporteur can conclusively show that the commission's proposed regulation, with the amendments made by the rapporteur, could help to achieve the objectives, but the large number of amendments would have undermined a clear voting pattern and would have resulted in an unbalanced regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it represents an important step forward in the fight against antibiotic resistance: animal health needs a secure supply of high-quality medicines and proper application in practice. it is also the only way to protect public health and to combat the irresponsible use of antibiotics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a need to revise the eu's veterinary medicines legislation. i am also in favour of encouraging research into new medicines in this field. the rapporteur has presented the situation in a coherent way so that the objectives mentioned above can be achieved as desired.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur can demonstrate conclusively that the proposed commission regulation with the amendments requested by the rapporteur can contribute to the achievement of the objectives mentioned. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this report has been postponed. the rapporteur welcomes the separation of marketing authorizations for veterinary medicinal products and human medicinal products in order to meet the specific needs of the veterinary sector. the report also calls for the full involvement of parliament in the setting of agency fees and monitoring. i am therefore in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i would have voted in favour of this report, as the rapporteur proposes to separate the marketing authorisation for veterinary medicinal products from that for human use in order to better meet the specific needs of the veterinary sector. it also considers it inappropriate that the structure and level of fees payable to the agency and the remuneration of the competent national authority should be fixed by means of an implementing act, as proposed by the commission. as was the case with the pharmacovigilance act, parliament should be fully involved in the setting of agency fees. the rapporteur proposes a full codecision procedure in this respect.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur welcomes the separation of marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products from those for human medicinal products in order to meet the specific needs of the veterinary sector. it does not consider it appropriate, as the commission proposes, to fix the structure and level of the fees payable to the agency and the remuneration to the competent national authority by means of an implementing act. as was the case with the pharmacovigilance act, parliament should be fully involved in the setting of agency fees. the rapporteur therefore proposes a full codecision procedure in this respect. this is to be welcomed and i support this report in this respect.
in writing. ‒ the excellent resolution on big data is a balanced assessment of the need for europe to catch up to become a global standard-setter in this field, and it includes some forward-looking proposals on how to achieve the objectives. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the issues raised are: access, control, ownership, portability, cross-purpose use, spectrum, and availability of technologies. the resolution makes clear that the data-driven economy and the digitalisation of industry are one of the few digital business areas where europe still has a global market and innovation edge over the us, which should be promoted in view of its economic importance. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the resolution. in the light of the serious deterioration of the situation in eritrea, this resolution sets the right measures and priorities and highlights the most pressing problems which need to be addressed to the international community.
in writing. ‒ security should be ensured in the country. the proposal is designed to reduce corruption. it also calls for the signature, ratification and immediate enactment of the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the resolution on the fyrom. in principle, there are some important points, but the strong emphasis on the euro-atlantic integration of macedonia is in my view a step in the wrong direction, because it would only further worsen the tense relationship between the eu and the non-eu states of the former eastern bloc.
in writing. ‒ while the report contains some important points, it overemphasises the importance of macedonia's euro-atlantic integration, which would only further worsen the eu's strained relationship with the non-eu states of the former eastern bloc. i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for macedonia's membership of nato and for its euro-atlantic integration. the eu has not yet adopted a decision on the accession of macedonia to the eu, due to unresolved disputes with albania and greece. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this resolution. in principle, there are some important points, but the strong call for montenegro to align itself with the csdp and the cfsp is, in my view, premature and therefore leads to a wrong direction for the country.
in writing. ‒ in principle, the resolution contains a number of important points. but it also calls for a strong alignment of montenegro with the common security and defence policy and the common foreign and security policy, which i think is premature for the country. i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ montenegro's planned eu accession should be viewed with caution, as the corruption situation is part of society and a threat to democratic institutions. the main concern is the impact on the independence of the judiciary. the council also stressed the need to ensure that the eu's external relations are not distorted by the threat of a military coup. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ i am extremely critical of the third pillar of the banking union, the single deposit guarantee following the introduction of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm) and the single resolution mechanism (srm). a uniform high level of deposit protection irrespective of the location of deposits reduces competition, encourages speculation and undermines bail-in operations. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it was intended to end the entire existing framework of banking union. the framework is based on three pillars, the third pillar being national deposit guarantee schemes. the bank shall ensure that the deposits are secured at a uniform and high level, irrespective of the location of the deposits. this is a very dangerous situation, and it is not the right incentive.
in writing. ‒ the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), which aims to achieve a single, homogeneous supervision of the banks of the participating member states, is the first pillar. the single resolution mechanism (srm), which ensures uniform rules and procedures and a joint decision-making procedure for the orderly resolution of insolvent banks, constitutes the second pillar. the third pillar concerns national deposit guarantee schemes a uniform, high level of deposit protection irrespective of the location of deposits. the whole of this set of rules is intended to complete the banking union, which is why i voted against it.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the alde group very much welcomes this debate on the occasion of international roma day. celebrating roma culture also highlights the persecution and discrimination that roma people face in all areas of life, and we would like to use this opportunity to remind everyone here that non-discrimination is a fundamental value of the european union. much more needs to be done not only to fight discrimination and stereotypes against roma people, but also to support their socio-economic integration. this is the key to delivering on equality for all. the european union and the member states have committed to this, but if you look at the reality on the ground, we are far from living up to our standards. forced evictions, segregation and discrimination in access to jobs, education, housing and health care cannot be tolerated any more in our union. we cannot be satisfied with national strategies for roma integration on paper only. the european parliament should be further involved and should take a proactive stance in monitoring the extent to which such strategies are implemented – both from a cost-effectiveness standpoint and from a concrete-outcome point of view. we have a common responsibility to act and to ensure that fundamental rights are respected for all.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. subsidiarity means closer ties with the citizens, more democracy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are dealing again and again with people who are rightly asking themselves: how does european democracy work? the procedures are so insanely complicated. and now, when i look at this report, it gets even more complicated. many of the points in the report make the european legislative process an immense - almost - impossibility. instead of a clear and transparent division of powers, the report, under the pretext of subsidiarity control, gives national parliaments the right to impede the european process in any way. supporting is one thing, but hindering is of course a problem. of course, national competences should not be undermined by european agents. however, the level of national control proposed here is simply inefficient. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the european parliament has been given a very important role in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty. and also pay attention to social dialogue. the implementation of the proposed adjustments in terms of competences could also serve as a pretext for weakening the social dialogue and the social partners. in this connection i refer you - and i am happy to promote this - to the kaufmann report on refit. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the situation in the member states, such as the introduction of a new system of social security for migrant workers.
the commission has already done so. we are talking about glyphosate and today we have called it a pesticide. it's not a pesticide, it's a total herbicide, it kills plants. it is therefore not a weed killer, for it does not really distinguish between weeds and crops. it only makes that difference if that crop is rr-compatible, that is, if monsanto or someone else has managed to plant an enzyme in the plant that makes it resistant to that toxic rain. so i think we've come to a pretty clear agreement today that glyphosate is capable of doing harm to the human body, whether it's carcinogenic or it's hormone-altering. and of course, it's a matter of risk. i mean, how often are we exposed to this danger of harm, this potential for harm? if we can just deny that there is a multiple exposure to glyphosate, then we can agree to a license. if we believe that there is both a risk and a high potential for harm, then we must prevent the renewal of the authorization here. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 april. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by ernest maragall on 'erasmus+ and other instruments to promote mobility in vocational education and training' (a8-0049/2016) 'a lifelong learning approach' (2015/2257 (ini)).
i have a lot of words for the following catch-the-eye procedure. i shall, however, be calling for two people from the epp and s&d and one from each of the other groups. i ask your understanding. catch the eye
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 april. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by sylvie goulard on the role of the eu in the context of international financial, monetary and regulatory institutions and bodies (2015/2060 (ini)) (a8-0027/2016).
- i'm not going to die. that was not really the point of order. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 april.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr ruža tomašić on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in fishing-dependent areas (2015/2090 (ini)) (a8-0044/2016).
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday, 12 april. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by norica nicolai on fisheries aspects in the framework of the international convention on the conservation of marine living resources in outer space (unclos) (2015/2109 (ini)) (a8-0042/2016).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. perspective is one of the most common words used when talking to politicians, officials and ngos in the middle east about the syrian refugee crisis. you need a perspective. the european debate often focuses on short-term financial support. but we must do more than just ensure short-term survival. if the money stops flowing because our strategic interests shift, the region will only be further destabilized. you and us, we all need perspective. this means that we must be honest with our citizens and consider: the sunny days are over for now. we need a holistic approach to the issue, and our discussion must move as quickly as possible towards the best possible local assistance. every euro invested locally is much more effective than every euro for the best integration measure in our country.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the negative political and economic mood is now having a full effect on our family farms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. the milk prices and the pig prices are in free fall and are now a real threat to the existence of the farms. at these prices, as currently found on the markets, no coverage can be achieved in production. we need real solidarity with our farmers to ensure that we have the necessary liquidity. i am speaking here above all of risk finance instruments - the commissioner has already mentioned this today - and, of course, above all of sales promotion measures which we have to put in place within europe, but also on third markets. in addition to new export efforts, however, a sustainable aid package must also shed light on the role of the individual actors along the value chain. we see again and again that dumping, dumping and dumping are putting enormous pressure on our producers, especially the regional producers. we must fight this dumping. the blackmail of producers by commercial groups must finally be put to an end. and perhaps a word on russia, which you also mentioned, commissioner: i welcome the initiative to open the markets here explicitly in the future.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because without the support of african countries in exporting and improving employment opportunities, the migration crisis threatens to worsen.
in writing. ‒ since the current wave of migration can only be contained if people from underdeveloped countries are given improved income opportunities, but also because this economic agreement is very one-sided and the quota-free access is very critical, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because a fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland provides fishermen with €17.8 million in support.
in writing. ‒ there is no objection to the renewal of the protocol on the fisheries partnership agreement with denmark and greenland. on the one hand, it helps to ensure coherence with fishing activities within the eu and in other areas in the region, and on the other hand, it also leads to financial support for fishermen.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of an air services agreement with the macao sar to replace the existing 15 bilateral air services agreements with the macao sar and thus to end the existing discrimination against member states is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it offers an opportunity to strengthen the competitiveness of austria as an economic and commercial location by limiting tax dumping in the area of the european internal market.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the extension of the minimum standard rate of vat, which is intended to harmonise the rules and avoid distortions of competition, is desirable.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it is purely a matter of strategic cooperation and not of data exchange.
in writing. ‒ it concerns the strategic cooperation between brazil and europol in the fight against crime and terrorism, which leads to improved cooperation in the field of law enforcement. the agreement excludes the exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ an application for waiver of parliamentary immunity was made following an investigation into an alleged offence. i voted for the deprivation of liberty of hermann winkler and i am in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity until this case is solved and there is no indictment.
in writing. ‒ the request for the waiver of the waiver of the immunity of hermann winkler is to be granted, since it relates to an investigation procedure following a serious road traffic accident in which hermann winkler himself was involved.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it contains areas which are not under national control.
in writing. ‒ the report does not clearly define some terms (breed, breeding programme). on the positive side, genetic diversity is particularly important for rare breeds, otherwise every species would be at risk of extinction. the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of animal welfare. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ on the one hand, the rapporteur's aim of increasing animal welfare and creating legal certainty, which would also provide greater clarity for breeders, should be highlighted positively. however, on the other hand, the report would create more red tape, which would reduce the position of european horse breeders.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against this report because it calls for women asylum seekers who enter as part of family reunification to be given an independent legal status. the commission is also proposing a european-wide and centralised system for asylum applications, which should ensure the allocation of responsibility.
in writing. ‒ the creation of an eu-wide central system for the allocation of asylum applications and for the allocation of their jurisdiction, the right to free movement for asylum seekers and the proposal to systematically waive penalties in asylum cases are to be strongly rejected.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it was not carefully drafted and its content was watered down. the effects of the negative trend are also not adequately assessed in terms of content.
in writing. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are fundamental principles in the eu. the report calls for the introduction of the 'green card' procedure as a preliminary step to the early warning mechanism, and for the subsidiarity and impact assessment to be carried out at the end of the legislative procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains very good ideas and i think it deserves our support. a high-level group of independent stakeholders has submitted proposals to the european commission to reduce administrative burdens.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for earlier involvement of third parties (consultations), a more detailed impact assessment and ex-post reviews. the report also refers to initiatives in some member states, which identify and then balance the additional burden on smes in the legislative process. it should be noted that 30% of the additional burden on smes is due to the transposition of directives by the member states. the maintenance of higher standards by member states leads to gold-plating and therefore also to an additional burden on smes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it contains some points which i consider to be quite sensible. a positive example of the report would be the support for small businesses. the refit programme should also bring more efficiency and effectiveness to the legislative process. the european law should thus be made simpler and thus less costly. the negative aspect of the report is the bureaucratic build-up, which i cannot support.
in writing. ‒ the report is good for smes and also for reducing administrative burdens and costs. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
in writing. ‒ i think the basic idea is very good, because many citizens really know little about the european union and its functions. i think that knowledge is good, and that is why the eu should be in textbooks. the important thing is that the information is given completely free of charge. i think the report says the exact opposite, that it is just a piece of eu propaganda that is not free of value. that is why i voted against this report. i am against the introduction of eu propaganda in classrooms and against its financing by different sectors.
in writing. ‒ the report is a single eu propaganda campaign that is designed to penetrate the classroom and be funded by different sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because experience abroad is particularly important for the future. it is often very difficult for pupils and students in particular to spend a semester abroad. the report contains very good ideas, particularly in promoting the mobility of students and apprentices.
in writing. ‒ i agreed to the report because it has good approaches, especially in the area of promoting the mobility of students and apprentices, who have better opportunities on the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because it aims to further allocate competences to the eu while limiting national competences.
in writing. ‒ capital flows and activities in the financial sector have long been considered globalised, making it all the more difficult to regulate the financial world. the report seeks to identify the main problems related to transparency, accountability and the strategic defence of eu interests. the report calls for a strengthening of the eu institutions, but does not go into detail on the future role of the member states and their parliaments.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing is of great importance in many eu countries, as it provides a high level of employment and is not only socially but also ecologically sustainable. the report also contains a number of recommendations for the future of the community's fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ promoting the protection of ecosystems and the conservation of fish stocks are important elements of this report. however, the report also aims at maximising sustainable yields and stresses the need for the eu to maintain its standards in its external fisheries-related activities.
the commission has already done so. what is still to be done to ensure that we all come together more resolutely, more seriously, more fully, to do everything possible to prevent the mistakes that have been made, to combat the many causes, to put an end to the wrong developments in our society and to ensure the european union's ability to act? cooperation exchange of data and commitment will only work if we build european capacities. and that is why i am very much in favour of the proposal put forward by mr verhofstadt, on the one hand, and especially by the president of the commission, who spoke of the security union. we need a master plan, a timetable and a plan of action for what to do by when. and it's not just about internal security, it's also about external security. we must also review our foreign policy, our defence and development policy in the regions where the causes of terrorism are created.
we have received numerous reports on the following catch-the-eye procedure. i shall, however, take only one person per group because we are already very late, and only those who were actually present during this debate and have not yet spoken in a catch-the-eye procedure. catch the eye
i have to say, madam president, it is interesting that no consequences have been taken by the responsible politicians for the failure of the brussels or belgian authorities to deal with the tragic recent incidents and attacks. no ministers have resigned. instead, there were flowery and artful justifications. it is not at all surprising that one of the plotters of the attacks worked in the european parliament, since well-known muslim brothers also come and go in this house. a blacklist of islamist lobbyists has not been drawn up to date. but the actionism continues. instead of collecting all the information possible on passenger data, we need a focused screening for commonalities between the bombers, as recommended by israeli intelligence. it is bizarre to include details such as sexual preferences in a data storage without at the same time putting the recording of relevant offences - violent offences, islamist propaganda offences - at the centre of this risk analysis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. according to an oecd study, the annual loss to national budgets of up to eur 210 billion is due to aggressive tax planning by multinational companies. that's 10% of the tax revenue of these companies. this figure shows that tackling aggressive tax planning is a top priority. if you haven't already seen this, it's obvious, at least since the panama papers: the aim of all these measures must be: profits should be taxed where the economic activity takes place. the un-oecd beps initiative is an important initiative to tackle this global problem of tax evasion globally. the 15-point action plan calls for international coordination on taxation of corporate income, closing financial loopholes and increasing transparency. 96 countries have already committed themselves to the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. panama does not do this, nor does the united states, which is becoming more and more the number one tax haven. delaware -- this state -- has more mail-order companies than people, and in north dakota, south dakota and nevada, money is being embezzled on a large scale, bypassing taxes. just an e-mail address, and you're a corporate citizen. the commission's package of measures from january this year is an important contribution, as are the recent reports in the econ committee on greater transparency and the fight against tax avoidance. the country-by-country reporting for companies with an annual turnover of more than eur 750 million and a transparency register will certainly contribute to transparency. ecofin has already committed itself to implementing this. but that's not enough. a global problem requires a worldwide network of transparency registers, a worldwide register of beneficial owners, the unification of the black list of tax havens and the tightening of limitation periods.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. transparency is an essential weapon in the fight against tax evasion and money laundering. transparency is therefore the first basis for more equity in tax morality, but it will not be enough. we need, as i said before, the big package, a global financial register as the basis for automatic exchange of information, so that we can also know the actual beneficial owners, or the protection of whistleblowers. there is a lot to do. and real, full public country-by-country reporting for as many companies as possible, including outside the european union, is absolutely necessary. commissioner, there is more to your proposal. i have some very specific questions for you . first of all, the 750 million, the threshold: that is the oecd threshold. what do you do with companies like mcdonalds, who make their living by breaking everything down into little franchises, then being all sme, how do we approach them? please look at the accounting and transparency directives. there are thresholds here that are lower, so it has to be feasible. the cost is not an adequate explanation. finally, the definition of the blacklist of tax havens. i think the text is still a construction site. can i now take the criteria in alternate ways or do i have to take them cumulatively? the latter is unacceptable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. under articles 24 and 21 of the eu treaty, the objectives of a common foreign and security policy are to promote democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the union has therefore concluded this agreement with turkey with much fanfare, and those who feel themselves to be the guardians of democracy and human rights, who always point with a raised finger and point to european values, were very happy that someone else was now protecting europe's external borders and taking over this uncomfortable protection. but they have chosen the wrong man: erdoğan is a despot who tramples on press and human freedom, ignores minorities, is islamizing turkey more and more and is even waging a civil war against his own people. ladies and gentlemen, this is not credible policy! our citizens can no longer hear these empty phrases about what we should do. instead of passing on responsibility, we should protect europe ourselves and make policy with a backbone and not with a checkbook.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i cannot help but make a few remarks about the speakers of the socialist and european people's parties when a mr pittella is seriously claiming that austria must be criticised because, as he says, 25 migrants are entering our country every day. i can only assure you that last year there were 90 000 asylum seekers here in austria, that this year there are already 35 000, that last year, with the help of the austrian chancellor faymann, a million people were smuggled through austria in a smuggling ring towards germany. and if, under pressure from my party, the freedom party, border controls are finally implemented in austria, then i beg you to do the same. i would also like to say a few words to the leader of the european people's party. if a mr weber here speaks in all seriousness and again and again in a derogatory way about the right wing, then what are you, mr weber? i believe you're a member of the csu. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. what you're doing is somewhere between red and green. but it's good that the afd in germany is just overtaking you and you will soon be just a part of german party history. and mrs harms of the green group, who recently said in all seriousness that democratic referendums must be withheld in european affairs - i wonder what has happened to your party? they come from a movement that has been grassroots democratic. today you are acting in a pseudo-dictatorial fashion and want to take away the right of the people to decide their own affairs. this turkey deal is another lazy deal that is going in the wrong direction, and we have turned a blind eye and a deaf ear to what is happening in turkey. human rights, the kurdish problem, the treatment of women in society and so on and so forth, you can orientate yourself - mr president, i am finished - to what the people are saying. the netherlands has made a right decision against a wrong policy of the european union. this is a model of best practice for the whole of europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this agreement with turkey is simply not a solution. what we're doing here is not just deporting refugees, and turkey is then deporting some of them back to syria. we are also postponing responsibility, and that is truly unworthy of a europe of values and fundamental rights. we must take seriously the criticism of this deal, which has been voiced by amnesty international, for example. i propose that we set up an ad hoc mission of mps, experts and civil society experts to look at what's really going on here. because we can't just keep doing this. we need legal and safe access through resettlement procedures, and we must above all - and i am addressing all those from the member states who find it difficult to distribute, no thank you - say: solidarity is not a one-way street, you too must take in refugees. but let me also come to my own home state and the criticism of the austrian federal government. not only what has happened here in the last few days in a bizarre exchange of posts at the behest of the governor of lower austria, but to close the brenner border again, which has now been open for so long because of the european union - we are actually giving our neighbours to the south a headache. this is a mockery of any european partnership. these borders and others must remain open!
i have to say, madam president, it is important that this last-chance summit has produced a result, because firstly, cooperation with neighbouring turkey is without alternative, albeit complicated and not without risks, and secondly, schengen can only work if external border controls work. it's the right steps. they should have happened sooner, and you have to watch closely to see if this all goes as planned. there are serious doubts. firstly, implementation is lacking there is too little staff and secondly, the concerns of human rights organisations are to be taken seriously as to whether human rights are actually being respected and whether these are isolated cases or systematic violations. we should also be clear that these are only first steps and that we need a big solution. this big solution means that we finally need to make aid to the countries of origin a priority and that we need humanitarian entry corridors.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. many legitimate concerns have been expressed. but i ask myself: what would have been the outcome of today's debate if there had been no eu-turkey agreement, if the commission had not put forward a proposal for a common foreign policy, if the commission's strategy for growth and employment had not been approved by the council? the increasing nationalism, the selfishness, the lack of solidarity within the european union would have led to more barbed wire, more borders would have been sealed, and there would have been talk of the fortress europe. none of us can want that. those who oppose the agreement will cause more suffering, risk more fences and the real end of schengen. we don't want the burner to be closed. we want the brenners to stay open in europe. ladies and gentlemen, the agreement will only work if we respect international and european law, if we guarantee respect for human rights, if we assume our responsibilities in all the member states, if we realise that the turkey deal does not really solve the problem. idomeni is an example of this. we also need solutions within the european union. unfortunately, the council has not come up with these solutions.
in writing. europe really cannot be proud of this: it has outsourced the refugee problem to turkey. our continent, with its 500 million inhabitants, is not in a position to take in nearly as many refugees as turkey. and now we can let ankara blackmail us because we need the deal to work. we therefore do not dare to point the finger at the violations of rights which are on the agenda in turkey, such as those which threaten the freedom of the press, freedom of expression or the protection of minorities. the outcome of the negotiations on the refugee question must be an incentive for us to work even more decisively towards a peaceful solution to the syrian war. more and more often these days we hear that the syrian army is again flying airstrikes against individual cities. this is a breach of the armistice agreement that we negotiated. it is therefore important that the european union press for the swift resumption of the negotiations in geneva. why do we always have to wait for the us to act? because we have to be clear about one thing: without peace in syria, the refugee crisis will not change. or do we want to wait until jordan and lebanon also collapse under the weight of refugees?
in writing. the refugee agreement with turkey and the closure of the balkan route have led to an 80 per cent reduction in the number of migrants crossing the aegean sea to greece. the figures from frontex, the border agency, prove it. from the beginning of 2016 until the eu summit on 18 march, 1,676 refugees landed in greece every day, compared to 337 a day since the agreement with turkey came into force. this is a relief for greece, but at the same time a new burden for italy. the migration flows have shifted from greece to italy, where, in the same period, record numbers are being recorded. among the migrants who choose the central mediterranean route, few are syrians, but mainly people from nigeria, somalia, gambia, guinea and the ivory coast. in libya alone, a million people are waiting to cross into europe. the european council has adopted a resolution on the situation in libya, calling for a european coastguard. the establishment of a european coastguard with the right to stop and control migrants would indeed be an important measure to reduce migratory flows. however, it would be much more important and sustainable to use development cooperation funds in a targeted way to eliminate the causes of displacement and to reintegrate migrants in their countries of origin.
in writing. ‒ the application submitted meets the conditions for a financial contribution to the protection of workers and for assistance for reintegration into the labour market. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal as the conditions for mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund are met. the economic damage caused by the 470 redundancies at volvo and 177 redundancies at suppliers and downstream companies can be offset accordingly.
in writing. ‒ since the application submitted for the mobilisation of the egf fulfils all the conditions for the granting of a financial contribution, i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ policy decisions can only be based on scientifically sound, actionable and reliable data. i therefore support the allocation of eur 380 000 for preparation, monitoring, data collection and the creation of a knowledge base.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (application egf/2016/000 ta 2016), which is a new instrument for the adaptation of the labour market to the new economic and social conditions. the amount of eur 380 000 is intended to finance the preparation, monitoring, data collection, administrative costs, technical assistance, support for the information and communication structure, advice to member states on the use of the egf and follow-up and evaluation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ since this funding is intended to collect data, finance the preparation of technical and administrative assistance and create a knowledge base, i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ as there are already several asylum, migration and integration funds, i do not see the need to provide an estimated amount of over eur 10 million from eu funds as long as the financial instrument from the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) is not yet fully funded.
in writing. ‒ i have decided against amending budget no 1/2016 (new instruments for the provision of emergency aid within the union). the rapporteur referred to directive 2016/369/eu, which was adopted without the involvement of the european parliament. accordingly, no ordinary legislative procedure under article 294 took place. while calling for greater solidarity among member states and for a sustainable budgetary and legal framework, the funds (eur 100 000 000) from the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) are to be refinanced from the emergency fund. the commission has also received a request from the european parliament and the council to amend the draft amending budget no 1/2016 in order to take account of the new financial perspective.
in writing. ‒ there are already a number of funds available for asylum, migration and integration.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the nomination of mr samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors. i shall abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the nomination of mr mihails kozlov as a member of the court of auditors. i shall abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the nomination of mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors. i shall abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the nomination of mr ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors. i shall abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the nomination of mr janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors. i vote for his nomination.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution to remove glyphosate from the food chain, taking full account of the precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ pesticides guarantee protection against pests and thus ensure the high quality of our food. the active substance glyphosate is one of the best controlled active substances used in the european union. i abstained because i want the decision on re-authorisation to be based on the most up-to-date scientific evaluation. the european authorisation procedure ensures that each active substance is controlled under constant supervision. that 's for sure . the authorisation of plant protection products is suspended when new scientific evidence is available. they are used only as long as they meet the high standards of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objections under article 106 of the basic regulation: renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate. in order to fully respect the precautionary principle, glyphosate should be removed from the food chain. a health hazard from this pesticide cannot be completely excluded.
in writing. ‒ glyphosate is a key component of some broadband herbicides and has been used worldwide to control weeds since the 1970s despite health concerns. glyphosate is classified as 'probably carcinogenic' by the who, and the eu commission classifies the herbicide as safe. until the impact on both human health and the environment is clear, any further sale must be stopped immediately. several european union member states, such as france, the netherlands and italy, have already spoken out against the use of the controversial plant protection product. glyphosate must therefore be subject to proper independent scientific investigation and classification. if the suspicion that glyphosate is carcinogenic is confirmed, it is imperative that its sale be stopped.
in writing. ‒ while there are some points on which i agree with the rapporteur, the report does envisage a massive expansion of the eu's areas of activity and competences. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for greater cooperation with nato and for member states to link european combat units with nato intervention forces. the commission is also proposing to subsidize agencies such as the eda through the multiannual financial framework in the context of a european defence union. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ this increasingly important geostrategic and economic region should also be given appropriate consideration in the foreign policies of the member states and the european union. i am therefore very open to the idea of creating economic policy incentives for enterprises. on the other hand, the report interferes with the interests of sovereign states, which is why i reject it.
in writing. ‒ firstly, economic incentives could be created for businesses in the region, but the report is very ideological and wants to interfere in the affairs of sovereign states. secondly, further eu foreign policy action in this volatile region would not be advisable. that is why i think the report should be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the zika virus outbreak. the countries concerned are suffering greatly and the eu must provide them with the necessary support, also to avoid destabilising these states.
in writing. ‒ the critical resolution on the zika virus outbreak, which also emphasises the prevention of the spread and the fight against the virus, is to be endorsed.
in writing. ‒ rule of law in poland we members of the european parliament voted today on a non-binding resolution on the situation in poland, continuing the plenary debate of 19 january. this vote is part of the 'framework for addressing systemic threats to the rule of law' in poland and is an opinion on the legislative changes introduced by the polish government to limit the powers of the polish constitutional tribunal. the rule of law in poland is in great danger. in order to draw attention to this and to appeal to the polish government, we had a common objective today: to adopt a resolution on poland that was as strong, as clear and as supported by a large majority as possible. in the run-up to the vote, there were plans to include a reference to the threat of a ban on abortion in this member state. but this could have watered down the outcome of the vote and, in the worst case, jeopardised it. the s&d and green groups have therefore withdrawn their amendments to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. ‒ we in the european parliament voted today on a non-binding resolution on the situation in poland, continuing the plenary debate of 19 january. this vote is part of the 'framework for addressing systemic threats to the rule of law' in poland and is an opinion on the legislative changes introduced by the polish government to limit the powers of the polish constitutional tribunal. the rule of law in poland is in great danger. in order to draw attention to this and to appeal to the polish government, we had a common objective today: to adopt a resolution on poland that was as strong, as clear and as supported by a large majority as possible. in the run-up to the vote, there were plans to include a reference to the threat of a ban on abortion in this member state. but this could have watered down the vote and, in the worst case, jeopardized it. the s&d and green groups have therefore withdrawn their amendments to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. ‒ we members of the european parliament voted today on a non-binding resolution on the situation in poland, continuing the plenary debate of 19 january. this vote is part of the 'framework for addressing systemic threats to the rule of law' in poland and is an opinion on the legislative changes introduced by the polish government to limit the powers of the polish constitutional tribunal. the rule of law in poland is in great danger. in order to draw attention to this and to appeal to the polish government, we had a common objective today: to adopt a resolution on poland that was as strong, as clear and as supported by a large majority as possible. in the run-up to the vote, there were plans to include a reference to the threat of a ban on abortion in this member state. but this could have watered down the vote and, in the worst case, jeopardized it. the s&d and green groups have therefore withdrawn their amendments to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this motion for a resolution. poland has a democratically elected government whose projects may not be welcomed by all the other member states, but it is neither appropriate nor sensible to adopt ideologically inflamed criticism and interference on behalf of parliament.
in writing. ‒ rule of law in poland we members of the european parliament voted today on a resolution on the situation in poland. this vote is part of the 'framework for addressing systemic threats to the rule of law' in poland and takes a position on the legislative changes introduced by the polish government to limit the powers of the polish constitutional tribunal. the rule of law in poland is in great danger. in order to draw attention to this and to appeal to the polish government, we had a common objective today: to adopt a resolution on poland that was as strong, as clear and as supported by a large majority as possible. in the run-up to the vote, there were plans to include a reference to the threat of a ban on abortion in this member state. but this could have watered down the vote and, in the worst case, jeopardized it. the s&d and green groups have therefore withdrawn their amendments to this effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. ‒ in my opinion, this resolution is an interference by the european union in the interests of the polish government and in poland's internal affairs. the aim is to apply political pressure in favour of the opposition. such a violation of the eu's obligations must be firmly rejected.
i have to say, madam president, today is a very important day for the european parliament, for europe and for its citizens. we have created a framework which will give our citizens a high degree of informational self-determination. we have created rules and standards which will strengthen people's confidence and which will increase the planning space of industry. we have succeeded in setting global standards by creating a single set of rules for the most important digital market in the world, which is europe. no one can deny that, no one can deny our standards. this shows that europe is capable of shaping the future, of forging great projects, if it chooses to do so. i very much hope that we can demonstrate this capability in this parliamentary term with the digital single market. but it also shows that the european institutions are able to work together productively and pragmatically. the package approach, which many initially doubted, is a very innovative approach and has shown that it can reconcile very different interests. it was a lively project with a lot of emotion and commitment, and there were intense and sometimes violent discussions involving national states, industry and civil society. more than 4 000 amendments were tabled and condensed into a political compromise here in parliament. the agreement with the council was a little more difficult, but it was successful. it is hoped that this law will have an impact, that it will be respected that the criminal law will ensure this , but it is also a matter of strengthening the data protection authorities in the member states so that citizens can enforce their rights in the respective member states.
i have to say, madam president, thank you to everyone who has worked on countless trilogies to bring this result to life. the basic regulation on data protection as such contains many good modernisations, necessary adaptations of european data protection law to the digital age. but i would now like to refer to the workers who have been lost and to remind them more or less of the importance of taking appropriate measures for them. the result is sobering, because nothing has been achieved in the field of employee data protection. we in the european parliament have done a good job in the employment committee, in the home affairs committee, but it is obvious that this was not important enough to the member states. there was no detailed debate here. accordingly, the situation is as it is now, namely: the proposals of the european data protection supervisor have been adopted very well and there is also a so-called field exception in article 82 for data processing in the employment context. this is a relatively small number, however. it is not enough for me as a european politician to sometimes want to offer my workers in europe more, in some way, that they should be given the same rules here in the digital age. i must therefore criticise the member states who do not seem to have enough will to cooperate in a european manner and i would like to ask the commission to take this as a working order for the next project, employment data protection.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the regulation of relations with turkey is one of the most important tasks of the present commission. it is of decisive importance, full of opportunities and opportunities, dangers and risks. there are many things which give cause for concern, such as the kurdish question. the present government believes it can solve these problems by force and that it has a free hand. after years of talks and rapprochement, we are again in a state of civil war. that can't be in our best interest. the report also mentions these developments very clearly. europe should also try to play a mediating role in this situation. the example could be the peace agreement in northern ireland, where all the parties to the conflict were brought to the table, including those who were initially considered to be terrorists.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am particularly concerned about the employees in the company. it's important to me that whistleblowers expose the wrongdoing and that they can do so without being prosecuted. no one should be able to disguise grievances as a trade secret. the starting point of this directive was extremely difficult for industry. what do we have now? a definition of trade secret, according to which experience and skills honestly acquired by employees in the course of their usual activities should not be considered as trade secrets. thank you, sergio cofferati and others who have worked for this. what else do we have? we have a real whistleblower protection. for the first time in a directive we have this clearly defined protection for employee representatives, for trade unionists on supervisory boards, for journalists, for all those who now reveal not only illegal behaviour, illegal acts, but also illegitimate acts. that is to say, it is a fairly comprehensive protection, and these are minimum standards. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the minimum standards. i call on all member states to do so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. there are also trade secrets, official secrets, all kinds of secrets. we need more comprehensive protection for whistleblowers. i would ask you to make a statement on this.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank mr tarand in particular. as rapporteur for the european parliament for the 2017 budget, he has taken a good, balanced position. he has been instrumental in getting us to agree on a budget which has already been cut by 4% by the heads of state or government for the seven-year period and which provides for 1% savings in posts each year. in this respect, we have also made a commitment in parliament to use taxpayers' money as sparingly as possible. we have reduced the 20% share of expenditure we normally have in administrative costs to 19.17%. this is actually unique. i don't remember we've had similar numbers in the last eight years. the increase in the security surcharge, which we made only last year, is 0.6%, which is well below the rate of inflation. and even if you actually compare the ordinary expenditure to each other, it is 1.4%. so i think it's a very sparing household. i would ask all the members of this house to consider their own possibilities of saving. we have many areas where there are limits, and not everyone has to exploit all the limits all the time. we have a lot of free choices. the beauty of this european parliament is that each member of the european parliament has a great deal of responsibility for how he manages his spending situation, whether he works a lot or not. it is the free mandate that makes a great deal possible.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. we all know that the basis of good finance is the profits of the company that writes it. it has something to do with taxation. do you think these questions should play an important role in the sme test in the national states?
a writer. the commission is not it is not the first time that we have dealt with the urgent debate on pakistan in this house. religious intolerance is always at the heart of this. the taliban are a terrorist sect that threatens everything that stands in the way of their crazy interpretations of islam. alleged deviations from islam and especially members of other religions are the target of their attacks. on easter sunday in lahore, where people were peacefully gathering, christians were the target. among the victims were many others, the majority of whom were muslims. this form of violence is abhorrent and criminal. we must do everything we can to counter this threat and we expect pakistan to take a more rigorous approach to these terrorist groups.
author. madam president, madam commissioner, colleagues, visitors to the gallery, honduras is a very beautiful country, but it is also known as one of the most violent countries in the world. the recent killings have drawn global attention, and it must be acknowledged that the situation of violence and impunity has increased since the 2009 coup. we condemn in this resolution the brutal killing on 3 march of berta cáceres, an indigenous environmental activist, and also that of nelson garcía, who was killed two weeks later because they were fighting against the agua zarca dam on the gualcarque river. we also condemn the killing of one of the symbols of the lgbti struggle, the transsexual woman paola barraza, who was killed on 24 january. today's resolution calls on the honduran authorities to thoroughly investigate all these murders and on the honduran judiciary to impose a just sentence on the perpetrators and also on those who have ordered these murders. we want an independent international investigation, within the framework of the inter-american commission on human rights, and that companies involved in large projects respect high social and ecological standards.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. honduras is a country in upheaval, unstable and far beyond its means. human rights are not respected, the crime rate is high, and there is no trust in the judiciary. against this background, a vibrant civil society is of the utmost importance. but nowhere in the region is it more dangerous for human rights activists than in this country - whether they are fighting for the rights of indigenous peoples, for the protection of the environment or against land grabbing, for the rights of lgbt people or for freedom of expression. in recent months, there have been shocking cases of attacks on activists. these murders must be investigated, the perpetrators must be punished. but above all, we must encourage and support the government in building an independent judiciary. the eu delegation in this country is very active here, and that is also very positive.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. nigeria is the largest economy in africa and its most populous nation - a key country - and so it is particularly important that democracy and the rule of law can develop here. we had the president of nigeria, buhari, in this house a few months ago, and he gave us a very impressive description of where he wants to take the country. there are many dangers, corruption, inequality is widespread, and that's very serious, because it's the gateway for the terrorists of boko haram. we still haven't been able to stop this terrorist group. tens of thousands of people have been killed, millions displaced, and it is worrying that recently women and children have also been used as suicide bombers. nigeria must continue this fight with clarity, must make clear progress here, because this is the most important prerequisite for democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ while i can support data collection for crime prevention, the proposal goes far too far and interferes too much with citizens' rights, in particular the right of citizens to privacy. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ the exception of, for example, processing someone's sex life when it is necessary for historical or statistical purposes or for the purpose of scientific research is not meaningful and lacks any basis. the nature of the political conviction and the necessity of the labour law, apart from political public activity, also make no sense and must be rejected. furthermore, the question remains whether this is still relevant in the era of passenger data transfer or the agreement between the government of the republic of austria and the government of the united states of america on the deepening of cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime.
in writing. ‒ while i can support data collection for crime prevention, the proposal goes far too far and interferes too much with citizens' rights, in particular the right of citizens to privacy. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ the exception of, for example, processing someone's sex life when it is necessary for historical or statistical purposes or for the purpose of scientific research is not meaningful and lacks any basis. the nature of the political conviction and the necessity of the labour law, apart from political public activity, also make no sense and must be rejected. furthermore, the question remains whether this is still relevant in the era of passenger data transfer or the agreement between the government of the republic of austria and the government of the united states of america on the deepening of cooperation in preventing and combating serious crime.
in writing. ‒ i reject this report. the data collection target will never be a real obstacle for criminals or terrorists, since they (1) use high-tech means and (2) can move freely by road within europe. but what is to be achieved by such an extended data collection system is the collection of personal and sensitive data of all european citizens. the data is also far too large to be evaluated accordingly. it would be more important to focus on the data of suspicious persons.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal as the pnr will prove to be an inefficient system for indiscriminate total surveillance of air passengers. terrorists will quickly develop evasion techniques or simply resort to open internal borders as a means of transport. overall, a clear setback for our civil liberties.
in writing. ‒ both the commission proposal and the legislative resolution are to be rejected. the pnr turns out to be a big brother system that will be, above all, inefficient. terrorists, or even serious criminals, will not pursue their business by voluntarily disclosing their data (or their actual data) to the authorities. they just march through the open borders without pnr or any other data effort. since credit card numbers and sexual orientation are also required as data, the amount of data to be processed is simply utopian. the commission is also proposing to set up a central pnr office which will be able to operate and manage the data as an independent body, without the member states having to report anything.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. i do recognize, on the one hand, that trade secrets need special protection, especially in times of increasing economic espionage. however, i cannot agree with the report as it stands, as it could put too much pressure on whistleblowers.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the aim and purpose of the report, but i cannot support certain points.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal because, as in previous years, it leads to a further enlargement of the brussels watershed, namely, in figures, to an increase in the financial budget of almost 4%. this is hard to convey to anyone at a time of worldwide cash shortages and the eu's inefficiency in solving pressing problems.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's budget estimate for the financial year 2017 provides for a budget of eur 1 910 073 000. this represents an increase of 3.9% compared to the 2016 budget. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for closer cooperation with turkey, shows little criticism of the prevailing system and the cyprus issue is only hesitantly addressed in the rare passages of the report and, in my view, completely inadequate. the report as a whole is in favour of turkey's accession, which is why i am voting against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because it does not take sufficient account of the current situation in turkey. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the report also fails to take account of the fact that there is currently no prospect of turkey joining the eu.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for closer cooperation with turkey. the report contains few critical remarks and the cyprus problem is treated almost naively, so i voted against it.
in writing. - i vote against the resolution. not only are many important points ignored, but the wrong conclusions are drawn and measures are demanded which amount to massive interference with the sovereignty of the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because it only halfheartedly addresses the country's current problems, in particular the minority problem and the problem of organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because of the lack of criticism of organised crime in the country.
in writing. - i vote against the resolution. not only are many important points ignored, but the wrong conclusions are drawn and measures are demanded which amount to massive interference with the sovereignty of the country.
in writing. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina is currently facing significant problems in the area of fundamentalist (political) islam. i therefore consider it fatal to make further promises to the country about eu membership at this time. unfortunately, the report goes in exactly that direction, which is why i refused to approve it.
in writing. ‒ since the report does not deal with the problems in bosnia and herzegovina, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with this report. the rapporteur's proposals are aimed at a transfer union, which i reject.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because it goes far beyond the eu's competences and further restricts the member states' scope for action. it is also a sign of an overly interventionist approach to politics, which i strongly reject.
in writing. ‒ the report targets areas that are far beyond the eu's contractual competences. that is why it must be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. the rapporteur recognises the role of market forces in development cooperation as an important factor.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it can indeed provide new impetus for development cooperation and, in particular, can also point to new funding opportunities.
in writing. ‒ the report's call for and recognition of a more important role for market forces in development cooperation, in order to create real change for people on the ground, is commendable.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is not prepared to accept this. unlike my predecessor, i must say that i find the ecb's annual report 2014 quite impressive, even though i am myself very committed to the steel industry and to all the issues that have just been mentioned. the report is impressive, and this is reflected in mr pirinski's report, because one thing is clear: the european investment bank is an important part of the investment gap we have had since the financial and debt crisis, and the figures in the report are a reflection of that. in 2014, the eib provided 80.3 billion in loans, of which 7.9 billion went abroad, to third countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if i look at the fact that out of a package of 3 billion in 2014, 1 billion went to ukraine, it is probably questionable how this can continue. what i really liked is also this record volume that you had in 2014 with the small and medium-sized enterprises. i mean, you have supported 285 000 small and mediumsized enterprises, 3.6 million jobs, that's important. i have one criticism, however: the efsi. in austria, one project has so far been approved, the bruck wind farm. the regulators, the banks, the investors are complaining. please make a commitment here to ensure that more projects are implemented in austria.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as rapporteur for the european development fund, i am particularly concerned to highlight some important points very clearly. this year, as in the previous year, there are many similar points, because the principle of development aid has not changed much. it is right, it is important, and we need it to enable people to live in dignity, especially in the poorest countries of africa. what i have had to realize with regret is that not much is changing about the problems either. the project controls are only limited in their effectiveness and there is a huge need for improvement. i would like to emphasize that this is not about creating a bureaucratic avalanche, because there are already enough control systems. what is not yet sufficient is the enforcement of these very control mechanisms, the willingness to learn from mistakes and to react to the findings of the control committee. the comments made by the commissioner responsible, mr mimica, were very revealing. it was very clearly pointed out that refugees now coming to europe are from afghanistan and syria. people from the acp states are currently more likely to flee to neighbouring countries, but it is likely that they will also come to europe. i therefore included a chapter in the report in which i am clearly in favour of a more flexible use of edf resources. thanks to the very good work of the court of auditors, we know that almost 10 billion euros are blocked at various stages of project implementation, and that is not only the money that is sensibly tied up in multiannual projects, but also the money that is in projects that have difficulties in being implemented and may be wasted. in addition, funds from the 8th edf, which was already committed in 1995, are still being spent. if we want to tackle the refugee crisis, we need to rethink and, above all, to understand that development aid is not a gift, it is addressing the causes. let us be reasonable in our approach to redistribute the money and set new priorities and preventive measures. the eu commission, through dg devco, and the european external action service, and especially the eu ambassadors on the ground, who are the link between the eu commission and the ed, need to do even more to deal with development aid projects. for example, if 428 of 918 edf-funded projects, worth €9.2 billion, have implementation difficulties, action must be taken instead of continuing to distribute money where the added value is questionable. but to do that, you also have to be willing to accept criticism and learn from mistakes. i am addressing this very clearly to the s&d group, because i would very much welcome it if the figures mentioned above and confirmed by the commission were not voted out of the report. if you don't allow criticism, you're keeping a system alive that could be of even greater use in an improved form. by 2020, 30 billion euros will be raised, not in the eu budget so it will flow directly from national finance ministries to the commission and then to africa. i also call for a quarter of the funds to be earmarked to help deal with the current refugee crisis. i am happy to quote the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, who herself says that development aid is not a gift but an investment and that a new form of partnership with the african partner countries must be found. i would also like to quote president martin schulz, who said: 'we should make development cooperation dependent on democracy and the rule of law and what we call good governance. it is not possible that every dictator who oppresses his own people is promoted in the economic sphere and then people flee the countries. one statement - my statement is clear: development aid must be root cause, and if it does not produce results, consequences must be drawn. i would ask all the members of the political groups not to prolong the past but to channel development aid in new ways, more meaningful and adapted to the needs of the present and to support the report.
madam president, the house is very honoured. first of all, i would like to thank the court of auditors for the good cooperation it has shown, which is the kind of cooperation we would like to see with the council. as in previous years, the committee on budgetary control recommends that the discharge of the council and the european council should not be granted at present but postponed for the time being. as in previous years, this decision by the european parliament is based on the council's lack of cooperation, which is in turn based on a different legal interpretation of the discharge authority. the council has for years refused to provide the relevant documents and information which would be required for any discharge. in the interests of transparency and the eu's responsibility towards its citizens and the funds they spend, it would be desirable for the council to recognise the fact that the entire european budget must be subject to controls by a democratically legitimised political institution, the european parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the course of today's debate we are discussing the discharge of 53 players from the general budget. since this is very complex, i'd like to focus on the agencies. the european court of auditors really deserves our thanks for this excellent work. the audit reports show that there are still many weaknesses in the financial assistance granted, due to the lack of control systems. this leads to faulty guarantee procedures, as well as to lack of transparency and inefficiency. significant deficiencies in the performance monitoring and evaluation of five agencies were identified. the european commission has launched a new initiative to promote the use of the internet in the european union. these five agencies alone account for 92% of the budget of eur 740 million. similarly, in the area of spending, these agencies have not sufficiently addressed alternative sources of funding, such as private funding, which has limited the effectiveness of the funding. that is why i am calling for a reform of the financial aid.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. a lot has been said this afternoon. as a short response, i would like to reiterate, as rapporteur for the edf, that we not only want to tackle the root causes of the refugee crisis and promote sustainable development, but we also want to be able to respond quickly and flexibly to existing and future needs. it is not a question here - and i ask you to listen very carefully - of protecting oneself against the existing, which has not worked, or against individuals, but it is a question of making sure that development aid money - that is tax money - is used in a meaningful way and in the spirit of the cause. i would like to thank all those involved for my report. i hope that the vote will be a vote of reason.
i have to say, madam president, war crimes by state actors as well as terrorist attacks by non-state actors are at the heart of the conflicts we have suffered particularly in recent years - in syria, yemen, afghanistan, iraq and so on. the attacks on hospitals, schools and kindergartens are particularly worrying. this is a very cynical form of violence, as are attacks on ngos and all those who provide humanitarian aid. these are war crimes, and they belong in the icc, that's indisputable. but this knowledge does not help the people affected in the present situation. that is why our resolution is so important, because we are reminded that we actually had an important instrument: the 2009 guidelines to promote compliance with the norms of international humanitarian law. we call on the relevant council bodies to explain to us what measures have been taken during this period to make the guidelines relevant and binding. we are aware of the importance of the european institutions and the role of the member states. we also draw attention to the important role of the united nations security council in this respect. the cooperation of the european union and the un is of the utmost importance in the above-mentioned conflicts. the european parliament has reaffirmed this in its resolution on yemen a few weeks ago, and i think we are right to repeat it here: we should exclude those states from arms supplies which violate international humanitarian law.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is important that the brussels ii regulation, which dates from 2003, should finally be revised, especially because it is aimed at the relationship between two states, which is often too little. crossborder cases are not limited to two countries but can often involve several countries. this creates a lot of legal problems. i have a case, for example, where a hungarian woman who worked in belgium has separated from a frenchman and the custody dispute is now being settled in belgium, even though no one lives in belgium anymore. there are many such cases involving more than two states. the revision of the regulation must take this into account in particular. in cases of legal uncertainty and lengthy proceedings, it is often the children who suffer. in my experience, most proceedings are not in the best interests of the child. it is therefore essential that the regulation should strengthen children's rights so that children can be questioned separately from their parents and that the duration of the procedure should be as short as possible. every child has the right to have the legislator draw up clear, unambiguous laws that can then also clearly ensure what the future of a child means. this is usually very decisive for the further course of life in this context.
in writing. the eu-turkey agreement aims to achieve two objectives: the aim is to reduce the flow of refugees and migrants into europe and to discourage organised smugglers. however, there are massive problems in implementing the agreement, namely the return of refugees and migrants to turkey. despite the agreement, the wave of illegal immigration is not abating, only the routes are changing. the same cannot be said for the 50,000 refugees who have been stranded in greece since the closure of the balkan route. adding to the difficulty is the turkish government's announcement that it will scrap the agreement with the eu if the eu does not implement a visa-free regime for turkish citizens from june 2016. president erdoğan had said that turkey could allow refugees to return if the eu did not lift the visa requirement as agreed. however, the turkish president seems to have forgotten that there are clear requirements for visa-free travel to the eu that turkey still has to meet. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. europe would therefore be well advised to tread carefully with regard to the agreement with turkey. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the more technical a matter is, the more difficult the negotiation of it is, of course, even if it is as little political as in this case. i would like to begin by paying a compliment to the negotiators. the fourth railway package will modernise the railway sector, but i do not believe it will bring much-needed reforms. unfortunately, far too many small steps are being taken in far too many and far too long stages. the technical part of the fourth railway package will certainly benefit the railway sector in europe. the fact that greater security and interoperability go hand in hand with the expansion of the era's powers is unfortunately a necessary evil for me. i hope that the bureaucracy will not prevail. the second part of the package, the opening of the market, is more critical. unfortunately, parliament was unable to reach agreement on this. the liberalisation sought may lead to a gain in efficiency and quality of services.
in writing. - i agree to this protocol. on the occasion of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu, croatia becomes a contracting party to the agreement on a common aviation area between the european union, its member states and georgia. the protocol does not contain any substantive amendments to the agreement on the common aviation area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it does not contain any substantive amendments to the agreement on the common aviation area. the protocol was negotiated between the commission and the government of georgia on the occasion of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the protocol aims to make the republic of croatia a party to the agreement on a common aviation area between the european union, its member states and georgia. the protocol was negotiated between the commission and the government of georgia on the occasion of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. - i agree to this protocol. on the occasion of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu, croatia becomes a contracting party to the agreement on a common aviation area between the european union, its member states and israel. the protocol does not contain any substantive amendments to the agreement on the common aviation area.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of this report, as no substantive changes were made. this is only a protocol negotiated between the commission and the government of israel on the occasion of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the protocol aims to make the republic of croatia a party to the agreement on a common aviation area between the european union, its member states and israel. the protocol does not contain any substantive amendments to the agreement on the common aviation area.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. it is of a technical nature and concerns mutual assistance and cooperation between the customs authorities of the member states on the occasion of the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it does not change the substance of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the convention on mutual administrative assistance and cooperation between customs administrations is a technical report based on the protocol on the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ an application for waiver of parliamentary immunity has been made following an administrative offence investigation. i voted for the deprivation of liberty of mr bolesław g. piecha and i am in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity until this case is solved and there is no indictment.
in writing. ‒ the request for waiver of the immunity of mr bolesław g. piecha is based on an infringement, the exceeding of the maximum speed limit in a closed locality, which occurred before mr bolesław g. piecha became a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it aims to facilitate family reunification. i would also like to say that the report is very well written and always puts the children first, but it does contain some demands which i strongly reject.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the content of the amendment tabled by the efdd group, as i fully support the technical pillar of the 4th railway package. this will promote interoperability and increase security. the fact that this is accompanied by an extension of the agency's tasks is a necessary evil.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the content of the amendment tabled by the efdd group, as i fully support the technical pillar of the 4th railway package. this will promote interoperability and increase security. the fact that this is accompanied by an extension of the agency's tasks is a necessary evil.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the content of the amendment tabled by the efdd group, as i fully support the technical pillar of the 4th railway package. this will promote interoperability and increase security. the fact that this is accompanied by an extension of the agency's tasks is a necessary evil.
in writing. ‒ a purely technical report on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. there is a need to subject indices to effective regulation as their use is essential for the design of investment strategies or as a reference for financial instruments. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained from voting on this report, which is a purely technical report on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. the report needs to be revised, so i can think about my consent.
in writing. ‒ the report on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts is a purely technical report, calling for a decision to re-examine the proposal or for the commission to amend the text.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the european commission and its agencies. their accounts for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion. i can, however, agree with the criticism of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the report calls on the commission to publish the decision on the imposition of penalties in connection with the fraudulent manipulation of the euribor and libor reference rates.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report calls for the decommitment of unused appropriations and for greater transparency, particularly in relation to the emissions scandal. the commission also proposes that in future directors-general should not take part in olaf investigations. instead, staff should be brought in.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the discharge of the special reports of the european court of auditors. the financial behaviour has been almost impeccable and his work brings real added value to the social and economic well-being of european citizens. there is therefore nothing to prevent him from being discharged.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i think the report contains too few critical points.
in writing. ‒ i abstain on the discharge of the 8th to 11th development funds. from an accounting point of view, there is nothing to prevent a discharge, but i do not think that the increase in appropriations requested is appropriate. i can agree with the criticism in the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it is critical in terms of the use of funds and transparency. the report also acknowledges the increasing number of economic migrants.
in writing. ‒ the call for more transparency and more controls in the report is to be welcomed. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge of the european parliament. his financial statements for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion. i can, however, agree with the criticism of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the resolution contains many critical passages. the report also contains a number of suggestions for improvement and calls for more control. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the report contains many critical passages, many suggestions for improvement and calls for more control, such as the review of the remuneration of costs by the bureau, and full transparency in the remuneration of costs.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of postponing the council's discharge. the lack of documentation does not allow for any other conclusion. i can agree with the criticism of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it contains critical passages and advocates the postponement of the vote on grounds of insufficiency and non-submission of documents.
in writing. ‒ the report on the eu general budget is very critical. the request to postpone the vote because of the lack of documents and the fact that they have not been submitted is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge of the european court of justice. his financial statements for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion. the resolution could have been a little more critical, which is why i am abstaining.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because, although the report contains some critical points, it should be even more critical overall.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the discharge to the general budget of the eu in respect of the court of justice contains good proposals, but i think it could have been much more critical.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the discharge to the european court of auditors. the financial behaviour has been almost impeccable and his work brings real added value to the social and economic well-being of european citizens. there is therefore nothing to prevent him from being discharged.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the court of auditors has sometimes the task of ensuring transparency in its activities and of identifying any weaknesses.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the budget available was reduced by some eur 10 million compared to the previous year, but the implementation rate was higher and therefore improved compared to the previous year. the court of auditors has sometimes the task of ensuring greater transparency and of identifying any weaknesses, so i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge of the economic and social committee. his financial statements for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion. the resolution could have been a little more critical, which is why i also reject it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the eesc is a more opinion-forming body whose very existence is questionable and which only creates additional costs for the taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ the european economic and social committee has no voting rights and is therefore an opinion-forming body. the whole of the facility is therefore only an additional burden on the taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge of the committee of the regions. his financial statements for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion. i can agree with the criticism of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is very critical and highlights waste, such as travel costs, lack of transparency and lack of benefits for citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this critical resolution. on the one hand, attention is drawn to unnecessary waste, such as travel costs, and on the other to the lack of transparency and the lack of benefits for citizens.
in writing. - i vote against the discharge of the foreign office. his financial statements for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because the report is generally good, but it also advocates the introduction of quotas (women's quotas and nationality).
in writing. ‒ in principle, this resolution provides good approaches, such as the call for more transparency, staff reductions and accountability. however, this report also calls for the introduction of quotas. i therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the discharge of the ombudsman. the financial behaviour has been almost impeccable and his work brings real added value to the social and economic well-being of european citizens. there is therefore nothing to prevent him from being granted discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the report is very critical of travel costs. the cost of travel from brussels to strasbourg alone is about eur 186 000 these costs are unacceptable in my view.
in writing. ‒ the report's critical presentation of the travel costs incurred by travelling from brussels to strasbourg and the desire for a fixed seat are to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i am abstaining to relieve the data protection officer of his responsibility. there is nothing against a discharge from an accounting point of view, but more transparency would be necessary.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution. the report does not reveal any serious budgetary shortcomings, on the contrary, everything seems to have been done within the framework, but the transparency is lacking. the court's report was declared confidential in the data protection officer's annual activity report for 2014.
in writing. ‒ according to the rapporteur, no gross budget deficits are identified. in my opinion, the call for more transparency would be desirable, as, for example, the court's report was declared confidential in the annual activity report of the data protection officer for 2014.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report on the financial management of eu agencies. the reminder to respect accounting principles is very welcome, as is the requested reduction in staff by 5%.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on the agencies to comply with the accounting principles. the commission is also urged to continue the annual 5% staff reduction rate.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this critical resolution because it not only calls on the agencies to comply with the accounting principles but also admonishes them to do so and encourages the com to continue the annual 5% staffing rate.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for acer. the role it is supposed to play in and for europe adds little value at this level and should be better served at national or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because it is sober and points to improvements in budgetary management. however, the relationship between the budget, the powers and the supervision of the agency is not questioned.
in writing. ‒ in my opinion, this resolution could have been much more critical. while suggestions for improvement are made, the question of the relationship between the agency's budget, powers and supervision is not clarified.
in writing. - i'm not going to speak to gerek. there is nothing in the accounts to prevent a discharge. however, the role it is supposed to play in and for europe has little added value at this level and should be better fulfilled at national or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution. the reduction of information security risks is good, but it also needs to be regulated at european level. the report could also contain more critical points.
in writing. ‒ while the report is positive about the aim of reducing information security risks, the rest of the report is very uncritical. that is why i abstained.
in writing. - i'm not going to speak to the cdt. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i think the report is not critical enough and should call for more transparency.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights very well the potential savings that can still be introduced. however, the report is not very critical of transparency. that is why i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for cedefop. its role in and for europe adds little value at this level and should be better served at national or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the report considers that the centre should help member states faced with a large influx of refugees to use the opportunities of vocational training to integrate these refugees into the labour markets.
in writing. ‒ since the resolution was not very critical and unclear, i could not agree with it.
in writing. ‒ i will abstain to relieve cepol. there is nothing against discharge from an accounting point of view, but there is too little emphasis on transparency in the case of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken against this resolution because, although it promises savings and a certain cost-efficiency, i think it is too uncritical in terms of expenditure. it should also be noted that background checks are to be used to block companies in case of conflict of interest.
in writing. ‒ the report praises the savings but does not criticise the expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain in order to relieve easa of its responsibilities. there is nothing in the accounts to prevent a discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the report contains some critical points. the agency has still not signed a headquarters agreement with the host member state.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution attests to the reliability, legality and regularity of easa's operations. it has also implemented the recommendations of the ias. one criticism is that the agency has still not signed a headquarters agreement with the host member state.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge of easo. its role in and for europe adds little value at this level and should be better served at national or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the report stresses the importance of the agency and that its budget and staff should be increased accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the report criticises, among other things, the agency's incorrect and irregular budget management. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the discharge of the eba. the financial performance has been almost impeccable and their work adds real value to the social and economic well-being of european citizens. there is therefore nothing to prevent her being granted discharge.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because the authority is, in principle, intended to perform a purely technical function. it aims to protect the security and solidarity of the financial sector and to enable a more integrated, efficient and secure financial market. this will promote transparency in the product and financial services markets and consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the discharge of the ecdc. the financial behaviour has been almost impeccable and his work brings real added value to the social and economic well-being of european citizens. there is therefore nothing to prevent him from being discharged.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the review is sufficiently accurate and provides constructive suggestions for improvement. the report also criticises the previous actions of the european centre for disease prevention and control.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur criticises the ecdc's approach to date and makes constructive suggestions for improvement. that is why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge of echa. the role it is supposed to play in and for europe adds little value at this level and should be better served at national or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i spoke against this resolution because i could not find any criticism of the way the agency has been using its resources so far. the report makes few suggestions for improvement in future spending.
in writing. ‒ the report makes few suggestions for improvement in future use of funds, and does not critically present the agency's expenditure to date.
in writing. - i vote against discharge of eua. the role it is supposed to play in and for europe adds little value at this level and should be better served at national or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because there are some areas of concern, such as budgetary increases of around 7% or significant weaknesses in tendering, despite the court of auditors' warning. moreover, conflicts of interest are not addressed with the necessary rigour.
in writing. ‒ the 7% budget increase and the weaknesses of the agency are not sufficiently addressed in this report, in my view.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge of efca. the role it is supposed to play in and for europe adds little value at this level and should be better served at national or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the report calls for the allocation of funds, which causes many problems for workers in the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the allocation of funds to this agency, which is causing many problems for workers in the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ i am abstaining to relieve efsa of its burden. there is nothing against discharge from an accounting point of view, but there is too little emphasis on transparency in the case of conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because the report calls for more operational resources to be allocated. the report could also be more critically worded.
in writing. ‒ on the one hand, it is positive that the problems with the authority's existing conflicts of interest are well highlighted in the report. the second is that more money is needed for the authority.
in writing. - i vote against the discharge of eige. the role it is supposed to play in and for europe adds little value at this level and should be better served at national or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it strengthens gender mainstreaming in all union policies and in the national policies based on it.
in writing. ‒ the call for greater gender mainstreaming in all eu policies and the national policies based on it is, in my view, to be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the discharge to eiopa. the financial performance has been almost impeccable and their work adds real value to the social and economic well-being of european citizens. there is therefore no reason to refuse to grant her discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the report on the activities of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority covers the management, audit and financial control of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, occupational pension schemes and insurance intermediaries. the report also contains some points which are also considered more critically.
in writing. ‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority's field of activity covers matters of corporate governance and the audit and financial control of insurance and reinsurance undertakings, occupational pension schemes and insurance intermediaries. the report is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action on the matter.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for the eit. its role in and for europe adds little value at this level and should be better served at national or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it does not sufficiently criticise the enormous increase in the budget of the institute and the union's contribution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the enormous increase in the institute's budget, by over 60%, and the union's contribution to the institute, by 80%, has not been sufficiently criticised.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution and recommendation on discharge to the ema. the rapporteur has clearly presented the situation and i think he has made the right decision.
in writing. ‒ the report provides a detailed and critical overview of the agency's budgetary problems. that is why i have voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge of the ebdd. the role it is supposed to play in and for europe adds little value at this level and should be better served at national or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i am against a monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. i think that this can be regulated at national level.
in writing. ‒ i did not agree with this uncritical resolution on the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction.
in writing. ‒ i am abstaining to relieve emsa of its burden. there is nothing in the accounts to discourage a discharge, but there are few suggestions for improvement.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because there are almost no substantive grounds for refusing discharge. the resolution lacks some points and in most cases makes specific proposals.
in writing. ‒ there are no substantive grounds for the maritime safety agency to refuse discharge. the resolution criticises a few points and makes concrete proposals to improve the status quo. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution and recommendation on discharge to enisa. the rapporteur has clearly presented the situation and i think he has made the right decision.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as well, as the agency could play a role in compliance with the rules on transparency, accountability and integrity.
in writing. ‒ in my opinion, the call for more transparency and accountability to the agency could have been more critical.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution on discharge for the era. the rapporteur has clearly presented the situation and i think he has made the right proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because budgetary problems are viewed with the utmost criticism. that is why i have agreed to the discharge.
in writing. ‒ since the era still has two seats and this is a waste of money, i voted against the discharge. the resolution makes concrete proposals for improvement and has therefore my support.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the discharge to esma. the financial performance has been almost impeccable and their work adds real value to the social and economic well-being of european citizens. there is therefore no reason to refuse to grant her discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a sober picture of the situation. esma seems to have done everything right and has very few errors.
in writing. ‒ the report gives a clear indication of the effectiveness of the agency's work and also describes suggestions for improvement.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge of the etf. the role it is supposed to play in and for europe adds little value at this level and should be better served at national or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it contains critical passages and advocates the postponement of the vote on grounds of insufficiency and lack of documentation.
in writing. ‒ the report criticises the agency's low cost assessment and waste of funds.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for eu-lisa. their accounts for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because some of the points are beautifully written. the report also contains no critical passages.
in writing. ‒ since neither the transfer of management from the commission to the agency in estonia makes sense, since even the development costs cannot be estimated, nor the over-financing of the agency, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for eu-osha. their accounts for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because i believe that the agency for safety and health at work can also be regulated at national level. the report also contains few critical remarks. the report only calls for stricter rules to improve corruption.
in writing. ‒ the report could have been much more critical. i also believe that safety and health at work should be regulated at national level.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for esa. their accounts for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken against this resolution because the report is too uncritical and i merely note that the agency has submitted estimates in its annual accounts. the report also contains too few suggestions for improvement.
in writing. ‒ in my opinion, the report does not include enough suggestions for improving the way the funds are used. the report also criticises the fact that the agency has only provided estimates and not exact figures in its annual accounts.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge of eurofund. their accounts for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because the agency deals mainly with youth unemployment within the european union - this is a point which i would like to support. however, this could also be solved at national level.
in writing. ‒ youth unemployment is certainly one of the most serious problems facing europe and, in my view, must be tackled by all means to ensure the prosperity of our continent and to curb emigration. i believe, however, that the first thing to do with youth unemployment should be to start at the national level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge of eurojust. their accounts for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because, although the number of budget lines was reduced, the appropriations for salaries were not considered to be critical.
in writing. ‒ while expenditure on budget lines has been reduced, the report regrets the under-budgeting of salaries. the report could have been a lot more critical.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge of europol. their accounts for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, although it is in favour of savings and also criticises some of the expenditure, the report is far too loosely worded.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this report should not only have advocated savings but also listed opportunities and suggested improvements.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the discharge of the fra. their accounts for the financial year 2014, undeclared budgetary items, weaknesses in financial management and calls for budgetary increases do not allow for any other conclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because the agency is another unjustified cost factor and the agency refuses to investigate the allegations of bullying.
in writing. ‒ in my opinion, the resolution could have been much more critical. in addition, the agency has refused to investigate and conduct investigations into allegations of harassment by an informant.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution on the discharge for frontex. the rapporteur has clearly presented the situation and i think he has made the right proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it highlights savings and calls for more transparency, particularly in the procurement procedure.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights potential savings and calls for more transparency, particularly in procurement procedures. however, the report could be a little more critical.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution on the discharge for gnss. the rapporteur has clearly presented the situation and i think he has made the right proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the report does not provide any grounds for refusing discharge. the resolution contains critical points which are also criticised and makes concrete proposals.
in writing. ‒ there are no grounds for refusing to grant discharge to the gnss. the resolution makes a number of points and makes specific proposals. that's why she found my support.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the artemis discharge resolution. the rapporteur has clearly presented the situation and i think he has made the right proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the report does not provide any grounds for refusing discharge. the resolution contains critical points which are also criticised and makes concrete proposals.
in writing. ‒ the discharge or settlement of accounts is postponed. the resolution makes a number of points and makes specific proposals. that's why she found my support.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the clean sky discharge resolution. the rapporteur has clearly presented the situation and i think he has made the right proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it contains critical passages and advocates the postponement of the vote on grounds of inadequacy and failure to submit documents. furthermore, there are no grounds for refusing to grant discharge to the clean sky joint undertaking in respect of its content.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution, which was highly critical and made concrete proposals for improvement in relation to the 2014 discharge.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the discharge for ecsel. the role it is supposed to play in and for europe adds little value at this level and should be better served at national or regional level.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution because the report concludes by calling for a discharge. the report contains some critical points, but they should be much more critical. i therefore do not think that a discharge is appropriate.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a discharge, although the company has provided incomplete data and hardly quantifiable results.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the postponement of the discharge for eniac. the rapporteur has clearly presented the situation and i think he has made the right proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the report clearly states why no discharge should be given. the exchange of information is criticized. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective.
in writing. ‒ the resolution is very clear on why there should be no discharge. the eca recommendation has been negative for the fourth consecutive year and the company, for example, provides little information to enable it to issue a final qualified opinion.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the discharge for fch. the rapporteur has clearly presented the situation and i think he has made the right proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the report does not provide any grounds for refusing discharge.
in writing. ‒ there are no grounds for refusing to grant discharge to the joint undertaking for fuel cells and hydrogen. the resolution makes a number of points and makes specific proposals. that's why she found my support.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the discharge for imi. the rapporteur has clearly presented the situation and i think he has made the right proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the report contains some critical points and draws attention to the lack of transparency in the processes and the lack of controls.
in writing. ‒ the resolution strongly criticises the lack of transparency in the processes and also draws attention to the lack of ex-ante controls. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the postponement of the iter discharge. the rapporteur has clearly presented the situation and i think he has made the right proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is criticised that the european union has overreached with the project and that the principle of equivalence cannot be respected. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the nuclear fuel. the new director-general's plan was little different from the previous plans.
in writing. ‒ the resolution makes it clear that the eu has overreached with the project, that the principle of equivalence cannot be respected and that there are already more promising technologies than iter in this area. the report also condemns the fact that the regulations on contracting and recruitment are not always respected. i am therefore in favour of not granting discharge to this company.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the discharge for sesar. the rapporteur has clearly presented the situation and i think he has made the right proposals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the report does not provide any grounds for refusing discharge.
in writing. ‒ there are no grounds for refusing to grant discharge to sesar in respect of its content. the resolution makes a number of points and makes specific proposals. that's why she found my support.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from this vote. in 2015, the eib provided financial support to 285 000 small and medium-sized enterprises, creating 3.6 million jobs in europe and supporting more than 500 000 young people. the eib's activities contribute to the creation of jobs and growth in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i think it contains too few critical points. the five largest economies of the 28 member states are targeted, as 59% of the projects supported went to them. i do not think that this is a balanced lending policy.
in writing. ‒ in my view, the european investment bank is nothing more than a machine for redistributing taxpayers' money to weaker, less well-organised and economically weaker states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises unsafe abortion due to rape in refugee camps and considers it to be very critical. the commission is also calling for a position against the use of armed drones.
in writing. ‒ the attacks on schools and hospitals are to be strongly condemned and the call for a common position against the use of armed drones is to be supported.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. he also rightly criticises the often excessively high level of secrecy attached to documents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is very critical and strongly condemns data retention and safe harbour decisions. the commission is also calling for greater transparency and data protection. the most frequently criticised is the excessive level of secrecy attached to documents.
in writing. ‒ the report is very critical and strongly condemns both the data retention, the safe harbour decision and the high levels of document secrecy. the call for greater transparency is also to be welcomed. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it seeks to establish common rules on domestic work and care. the european union is calling for legal ways of immigration into the european union.
in writing. ‒ as the report aims to establish common rules on domestic work and care and also calls for new migration programmes to create quasi-legal pathways for immigration to the eu, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for a platform on which women's campaigns can be created. unfortunately, the report places too much emphasis on gender mainstreaming in education.
in writing. ‒ the report expresses the desire for a platform on which women's campaigns can be created. the second is to mainstream gender in education.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not going to go into detail. i too welcome the opportunity to debate cohesion policy here in the european parliament. the commissioner has made it quite clear that cohesion policy is the main investment instrument of the european union. as the shadow rapporteur for the report on 'cohesion policy in mountain areas', i would like to thank mrs iotova very warmly for her work. it is important that the eu finds new ways to better support mountain regions. and there are some levers that can be better used, particularly in the area of cohesion policy. we know that there can be no one-size-fits-all model that can be applied everywhere. but i think mountain regions all face similar challenges, whether it's climate change, or people's access to public services, to educational institutions, to the job market. the role of women and the situation of women in mountain regions is a particular concern of my group, the greens. women, especially in mountain regions, have lower employment opportunities and a lower employment rate compared to men and are less integrated into the traditional economic sectors. and if they're employed -- the studies from these regions show that -- they're either in part-time or low-paying jobs. i think that this is a challenge which we, as members of the european parliament, must take up in particular. for example, there is a very good project which we would also like to mention, an internet project called women-alpnet, which explicitly aims to promote the participation of women in sustainable development in the alpine region. we are also pleased that the report gives special consideration to the role of glaciers and the role of mountains as ecosystems and water systems. it is estimated that by 2050 the glaciers in europe will have melted. the eu must counter this fatal development: i think we are much more dependent on our ecosystems than some people think; it's our job to preserve it. so there are some very positive points in the report. we shall also be asking for two split or separate votes in the vote, particularly as regards the wording. the report describes the mountains in part as an obstacle that must be overcome to build roads or other transport links. we greens naturally take a different view here: for us mountains are first and foremost vulnerable ecosystems, where any construction project can cause massive damage, especially in the infrastructure sector. man should adapt to the mountain, not the other way around. we will be asking for a second split vote on the wording that solar and wind power plants could affect the landscape. we greens naturally have a different view on this too. in any case, we must ensure that this is also included in this report mountains are not misused as a store of material for the surrounding regions, but are perceived and supported as sensitive ecosystems that have a major impact on our well-being. as an austrian, i would like to emphasize the alpine convention in a positive way.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the commissioner has already said that he is not in favour of the proposal. we have now heard many important points from the speakers, including very critical points, on why this nord stream 2 project should not be realised, and these points must be taken seriously! this goes from lack of diversification to the european union not supporting this project. but let me address a few points which perhaps should also be taken seriously. the first point: let's look at the consortium that's behind this big project. this is a consortium with a european dimension. this is not just gazprom, but these are two german companies, uniper and basf wintershall holding, this is shell, this is angi and this is the austrian omv is a quite respectable group. secondly, the security of european supplies: nord stream 2 could double the capacity of the two existing pipelines by 55 to a total of 110 billion cubic metres of gas. this would be enough to supply 52 million households in europe with gas and one third of europe's gas needs. it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about diversification, to extend the southeastern corridor in the south-eastern mediterranean - a previous speaker has already mentioned this today - and to ensure greater diversification. infrastructure expenditure: commissioner cañete, you mentioned recently, last week, that europe has a 200 billion investment gap in the energy sector. nord stream 2 would bring in eur 9 billion in investment in a construction phase and another eur 7 billion for the expansion of additional pipeline capacity and additional routes. in addition, additional investment in equipment: the austrian company voestalpine alone has been awarded the contract to supply 300 000 tonnes of high-strength tube sheets for this pipeline, and this at a time when we are discussing all the problems in the steel industry. my home country, austria, is supporting this project not only because omv is represented, the baumgarten node is essential and voest can make an important contribution. however, the concerns mentioned above, namely regarding ukraine as a gas transit country and the modernisation of the ukrainian gas pipeline infrastructure, as well as the compatibility of nord stream 2 with eu law, in particular the issue of the territorial application of the third energy package, should be addressed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for the last 15 years, china has been undergoing a remarkable development: a reform from a planned economy to a market economy. however, is this a genuine market economy? i say no. there's a few things missing. the macroeconomic control of the planned economy, the privileging of state-owned enterprises and the lack of protection of intellectual property rights in china continue to exist. that gives china an artificial competitive advantage. i am personally affected and concerned. i come from linz, the heart of austrian steel production. and when i think about the fact that china alone exported 134 million tons of steel worldwide in 2015 - thank god, only 7.5 million to the eu - and china has 400 million tons of excess capacity, that makes me very worried. it also means that we must take clear protective measures here in europe. as long as this distortion of competition by illegal measures exists, europe must clearly protect its domestic economy and industry by anti-dumping measures. this is about our european economy, but it is also about millions of jobs in europe.
in writing. the representatives of the people's republic of china take the view that their country should be granted market economy status automatically as of 11 december 2016, i.e. 15 years after the signature of the agreement on accession to the world trade organisation. this would create enormous problems for european industry and for tens of thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises. for example, already highly subsidised cheap chinese steel is flooding the european single market and causing massive job losses in europe. the total number of jobs in the steel industry and related supplier industries is estimated by experts at 1.3 million. but also sectors such as the bicycle industry, with 600 smes and 70,000 employees, are affected. the european commission is currently analysing the feedback from the public consultation on the recognition of china's market economy status. the commission is also proposing to set up a european centre for the development of vocational training. the commission is also preparing an effective trade defence system against unfair trade practices. however, an automatic recognition of china's market economy status, which is not at all necessary for the eu, would make the application of anti-dumping instruments much more difficult and market distortions would be difficult to punish. the negative impact on employment, growth and innovation, particularly in key european industries, would be massive.
in accordance with rule 152(2) and in agreement with the political groups, i propose the following change to wednesday’s agenda concerning the debate on the oral question to the council and commission on the follow-up to parliament’s resolution of 11 february 2015 on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. the proposal is to postpone this until the june i part-session in order to enable the council to be appropriately represented: its representatives have to leave earlier tomorrow evening. are there any objections? no? then our agenda is amended accordingly.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr carver, i am told that all the amendments were tabled last week and they have all been translated, so i do not see the point of your argument, except for making some comment on the upcoming vote in the uk in more than a month.
that concludes the vote.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the present report on protection against subsidised imports from third countries. the proposed amendments are a consolidation of the existing act without any change in its content. for reasons of clarity and rationality, it is therefore necessary to codify the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a pure codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes. i also think that the report is very clear and concise, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 597/2009 has been substantially amended several times. for reasons of clarity and rationality, it is appropriate to codify that regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the present report on protection against dumped imports from third countries. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. for reasons of clarity and rationality, it is therefore necessary to codify that regulation.
in writing. ‒ the report does not contain any changes in content, but merely codifies existing legal texts. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 has been substantially amended several times. for reasons of clarity and rationality, it is appropriate to codify that regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report. nothing prevents a partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia on sustainable fisheries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i support the eu-liberia partnership agreement on sustainable fisheries. sustainable fisheries are an important step towards economic development.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report. nothing shall prevent the adoption of a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of mauritania for a period of four years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. fisheries are a fundamental part of europe's food supply. the report contains sensible proposals which i can only agree with.
in writing. ‒ the report is a new agreement designed to address the shortcomings of the last protocol.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report. this confirms the continuation of a protocol on data exchange with south korea under the gnss programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a purely technical confirmation of the continuation of a protocol on data exchange with south korea under the gnss programme under rule 50/51.
in writing. ‒ this report is a purely technical confirmation of the continuation of a protocol for the exchange of data with south korea under the gnss programme under rule 50/51. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report because it unfortunately offers very little added value and does not help to eliminate the still insufficient convergence between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because nothing has changed in the report itself. i do not think this report is acceptable, since it is mainly a propaganda value.
in writing. ‒ while the content of the report can be generally agreed, there are still some critical points with negative consequences for the financial centre of europe. for example, the idea of transparency is reflected in a public database, which is supposed to contain enemy data that would also allow inferences on sensitive business secrets. for these reasons i shall abstain from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because i can only support it partially. the idea of transparency in a public database, which can often include business secrets, is not to be supported in my view. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. ‒ in my opinion, the report has some worthy proposals. however, the idea of transparency is reflected in a public database, which could often include trade secrets. in addition, statistical regulation is also used to make political statements, which is not conducive to improving the quality of data.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report on mountain cohesion policy, as it brings positive benefits to mountain regions in the eu member states and is also important for a mountain country like austria.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to improve the competitiveness of mountain regions and to provide economic support for their inhabitants. it also includes, for example, common approaches to the protection and development of nature reserves. the report calls for the development of an agenda for mountain areas. the report could also add value to austria, through measures such as the promotion of the internet and better support for regional agriculture, particularly the dairy sector. that is why i have agreed to the report.
the explanations of vote are closed.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, how many times have we heard in this house that the current aid package for greece will work, bring stability, and bring about a turnaround in greece. and how often have we heard in all 28 member states' parliaments that the billions in aid currently available to greece will help this time and that it is not money lost, burned at the peloponnese? today we know that every aid package has only made the situation worse. the debt mountain in greece today is 183 per cent of economic output. and any economist will tell you that this can't be refinanced anymore. if you look at a really shoddy side of this whole aid policy: this week, a very interesting article was published in spiegel, which showed that according to the european institute for management and technology, 95% of the aid has not gone to the people in greece, has not been transferred to the small and medium-sized businesses there, to slowly get the economy going. 95 percent went into the hands of the banks, and the banks have made shoddy policies from the beginning. they bought greek bonds with cheap money from the european central bank, with no interest, and they got 15 to 20 percent interest, and they didn't really have to pay for it. the only way out of this crisis is to get greece out of the euro area so that greece can become competitive again, step by step, in both areas - those not affected by the aid policy too much, and on the other hand - to give greece a chance to find a good future.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank mr wenta, because the key question for all of us is, of course, how can we become more efficient? my question is: what can we do about selfemployment and, in particular, family farming in the developing countries? how can you help yourself here? what could development policy do in the future to make it easier for families to produce what they need locally?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. yes, free trade can create prosperity. but the question is always, at what cost? i am therefore very critical of this agreement, particularly because we are still very much concerned about the ttip negotiations. i think i can speak for you too, commissioner. there are several factors which we should be looking at here in this free trade agreement. the first is that these negotiations are to be resumed after a six-year break. secondly, the situation in europe, but also in south america, has changed completely since this agreement was reached in the 1990s. so do you think it's possible to pick up where 2010 left off? i do not think so, because the conditions are different, and of course, especially in the agricultural sector. we are experiencing very difficult times in europe, particularly in small-scale farming in austria, and particularly in the pig, milk and beef markets. the opinion of the agricultural community throughout europe, and particularly in austria, is also critical of this agreement with the mercosur countries. it is a question of the livelihoods of our producers, and they should be the focus of our attention here. the market crisis in europe makes me particularly critical. i can see little positive in this agreement in this respect.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. european aid to lebanon now amounts to some 860 million euros a year. i welcome that, since the small country with over a million official refugees is the main burden in terms of taking in refugees in the region. but we need to make these funds more effective. lebanon has been a model of integration of different religions for years. this is being seriously threatened by the advance of extremist islamic forces. the situation of christians in particular is threatened with a long-term deterioration. the growing aggression against christians in refugee camps must be stopped, not just here in europe but in the middle east as well. the union must therefore also make its financial contributions to the refugee crisis conditional. religious minorities should also be protected in refugee camps, and if necessary in separated camps.
madam president, let me thank ms mogherini not just for her words today, but also for her tireless efforts and the tireless efforts of all around her to make this world a better place to live in, especially for refugees in jordan and in lebanon. i myself had the chance last week to represent president schulz at the first middle east and north africa (mena) region of the women in parliaments global forum, and there i had also a chance to visit the azraq camp, which is funded to a large extent by eu money. there was a big eu flag there which, they told us, had not been there for long – so now it is there! but the most touching thing was seeing kids in school: the education there. the young ones – like elementary school kids – were really eager to learn, so many of them, and saying what they wanted to become when they get older, also wanting to return. but then, the older they get, the fewer are attending school. we saw some preparing for graduation, and we heard that the reason why there are fewer of them as they get older is, in part, because there is no prospect for them to get scholarships to universities, for example. so my colleague beatriz becerra and i decided that we will start a small parliament initiative, with – hopefully – other parliamentarians, to support those young people – mostly the young women, but also some of those young men – to get some scholarships to be able to do what ms mogherini said: to keep hope alive for them to have a prospect in life. that will, hopefully, be one of our small contributions, to also work on that. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, but you know that it is not possible to study in syria at the moment. that means they could study in jordan. but they have to pay for it. and i think it would be wise to support that, too. of course, we hope that the war in syria will soon be over. but this requires a joint effort, and so do mrs mogherini and many others.
i have to say, madam president, we should have this important debate more often. in fact, the situation in the countries of origin is the most important challenge in solving the refugee crisis. it's not all rosy, and we have to admit that we've made mistakes, that we've failed. for example, the cuts in the world food programme were a major factor in the rapid increase in the number of refugees last summer. but support measures in countries of origin are not only important for their own sake: they help countries like lebanon and jordan. anyone who has been to these countries and visited these camps will agree with me: it is great what is being done in these countries, how the people are willing to share what little they have with the refugees. when a country like jordan, which is suffering from water scarcity, is home to more than 600,000 additional people. we must support these efforts with money, with more money and with the establishment of structures of self-government, as in zaatari. we need these structures where people can take their destiny into their own hands, educate their children in schools and become economically active. but we should also go a step further and consider whether we should not also proceed systematically, as the americans did in europe after 1945 with the marshall plan. we should consider developing a schuman plan for these countries.
mr president, if i had not experienced it with my own eyes, i probably would not have believed it: in march of this year, i visited the west bank with some fellow meps. whoever we talked to, frustration and desperation was everywhere – frustration over the stalled peace process and desperation as the situation of the palestinians had worsened over the years. but what really angered us was the random destruction of community structures that were built, or at least financed, by the european union. i will leave out the numbers because they have been mentioned here before. the bedouins we talked to showed us the remnants of their tents with even the eu symbols almost beyond recognition. madam high representative, i would like to know how vigorously you will demand from the israeli government compensation to the european union and an end to that policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. tomorrow is a big day we will adopt the europol regulation in second reading. it took us over three years and over 80 sessions. it was a persistent process and my colleague, mr díaz de mera, has managed this process with care and in a collegial manner. i would like to thank him very much for this, and also all the colleagues who worked with him as shadow rapporteurs - it was a very good working atmosphere. the regulation aligns the provisions with the treaty of lisbon. it also improves the security of european citizens. it will reduce the bureaucracy of crossborder cooperation and make it possible to combat organised crime and terrorism more efficiently. this regulation is capable of making europol's structures more efficient and democratic, of strengthening parliamentary control and of enabling us to introduce strict data protection rules. it is particularly important that parliamentary scrutiny be carried out jointly with the national parliaments. this is one of the few acts which focuses on interinstitutional cooperation with national parliaments. this joint supervisory body could and should also be a model in other areas. interparliamentary cooperation is one of the important pillars of the european project. i also think it is important that we have succeeded - we did in the last session of this plenary, which adopted the data protection package - in seeking out, finding and adapting the new provisions to these developments. this will strengthen europol's credibility, and this is a prerequisite for more efficient cooperation, for greater acceptance of the authority and also for the willingness to increase data exchange. the merger of cepol and europol was also an important topic. we decided to prevent this because we wanted to strengthen the focus of the individual institutions. we have also taken this pragmatic approach in other areas, such as the internet observatory, where i still believe that a separate act would have been better. but time was of the essence, and it made sense to go that route. i think we'll pass a good regulation. it will improve europol's work in the interests of our citizens and it is also a good basis for further steps towards integration in police cooperation, which are of course necessary.
i have to say, madam president, the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is a good day, with the commitment of the largest possible constructive majority in this european parliament to strengthen europol. congratulations to our reporter who's been working with the shadows on this for the last few years. i would like to build on this and discuss the next phase of development. i welcome the announcement by commissioner avramopoulos that further steps will be taken to strengthen europol and to define the new needs in the fight against terrorism and organised crime over the next two years. looking at europol's current capabilities, it is clear that the task of coordination alone cannot succeed in the fight against high-tech terrorist networks and globalised organised crime. europe must win this cruel battle. europe must therefore be even stronger. the consequence is a european security union. a european security union, where europol must be a supranational agency with its own units, sent by the member states, under central command, for cross-border operations throughout europe. i hope that the commission will be efficient in this great step forward. yes, a european fbi can be at the end of this process - not in an eu as a union of states, but with the power to guarantee the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ commodity dealers are exempted from the rules on large loans and capital requirements of investment firms, as the capital coverage of the traded commodities already exists. these derogations shall apply until 31 december 2017. the commission should have produced a report on the appropriate settlement of this situation by the end of 2015, but the review initiated has not been completed to date. in order to exempt commodity traders from the wholesale credit rules and the related increase in capital requirements beyond 31 december 2017 and to allow them to continue their business activities, i am voting in favour of extending the derogation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because, although the report contains useful aspects, it cannot be supported by the total of the amendments tabled.
in writing. ‒ the vote in question is a recommendation for the second reading, in which two amendments are put to the vote. i agree with the first amendment, which rejects the council's position. the second amendment, which calls for the creation of an internet whistleblowing centre to counter terrorism and extremism on the internet, i reject.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the request because i consider europol's work in the field of law enforcement to be worthy of support in principle. at the same time, however, i would like to stress that support for europol must not lead to further curtailment of the rights of the member states, in particular by the creation of a super-prosecutor's office through the back door.
in writing. ‒ as this vote is a recommendation for the second reading, there will be no final vote. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the basis of article k.3 of the agreement on the european economic area. i voted in favour of this amendment because i reject the council's proposed proposal. the commission has also proposed the creation of an internet referral unit to counter terrorism and extremism on the internet, which will in fact prove to be another attack on the freedom of expression of the honest citizen.
in writing. ‒ the vote is a recommendation for second reading. instead of a final vote, identical amendments by the edf and the edf are voted on, according to which the council's position should not be adopted. i agree with those amendments.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against the present report because it could lead to further borderless immigration and also wants to promote family reunification for scientists, etc. at the same time, i do not see how the increase in aupair posts is expected to have a positive impact on the eu as a scientific location.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to lay down the conditions for entry and permanent residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, traineeships, voluntary work, pupil exchanges, educational projects and au pairs. the joint resolution of the ep and the commission states that [...] the inclusion of this provision in this directive should not set a precedent for future legal instruments in the field of migration[...]. the vote was taken on a recommendation for second reading. the two groups, the epp and the efdd, have each tabled amendments to the effect that the council's position should not be adopted. that is why i voted for these motions.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy, with its funds, is an important source of investment for the member states and plays an important role in convergence. the rural areas of austria - particularly the alpine region and the burgenland - have also benefited from this policy. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment. for these reasons i shall abstain on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the resolution correctly mentions that cohesion policy is the main source of public investment in some member states. the financial disempowerment of the nation states by cohesion policy is not altered by this resolution. the resolution was therefore clearly to be rejected.
in writing. ‒ the resolution mentions that cohesion policy is the main source of public investment in some member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one thing is certain: europe is facing a formidable challenge. but it is possible to overcome them, and it does not depend on the number of asylum seekers, but on our attitude, the concrete attitude of the member states to reform the current european asylum system. the commission proposal is on the table and i think it is well balanced. the member states cannot continue to turn a blind eye and hope that the influx of refugees will stop. let 's face it . in relation to their population, economically weak countries like lebanon and jordan take in a much higher number of refugees than we do. as long as we try to shift our responsibility to other countries, the problem will remain. there is no sustainable european solution outside our borders. the plan to relocate asylum seekers was a first attempt to get the situation under control - unfortunately, it has clearly failed. i hope that the shortcomings caused by the lack of solidarity between the member states and the lack of european responsibility will be addressed and resolved through negotiations on a european asylum system.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when we discussed the commission's communication on the revision of the dublin system a month ago, there was a lot of support. finally, someone had the courage to admit that there are alternatives to dublin. the draft regulation is a disappointment to many of us because it is holding on to the illusion of dublin. the first-country principle remains in force and on this basis attempts are made to remedy weaknesses such as the allocation to all member states already mentioned. some elements are quite right - a uniform european asylum procedure, the strengthening of easo, the improvements to eurodac - but in the end it is all about the doctor, and the risk of failure is very high, and the risk of not being taken seriously. all this is damaging europe. we should really have the courage to create legal entry options, to treat different systems differently, such as immigration and asylum, and to regulate the possibilities of applying in the regions of origin - whether through the embassy procedure or through contact points to be set up on our own. it is the only way to combat the trafficking of human beings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission is trying to respond to the lack of solidarity, of european responsibility and of capacity to act. i appreciate that. the problem is not the commission's proposals, but the breaches of the law in the member states, the lack of solidarity, the growing nationalism, the failure to implement the decisions and to enforce the proposals. i will say it quite frankly: democracy has its limits. we must not vote on fundamental rights, human rights and solidarity, but live and abide by them. we shall not be able to accept these proposals either. we need a pan-european policy on asylum and migration, a common foreign, security, defence and development policy, common external border control, a legal migration policy, new approaches to integration policy and a coordinated investment policy in africa. we have to deal with all of that. without solidarity and political will, no proposal will help us.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not we are discussing schengen again, and the debate today shows that schengen in this form is a fundamental flaw in the european union's conception: well-intentioned but very, very badly implemented. in principle, there is nothing against the principle of open borders, all the environmental conditions must be adapted to it, and you must feel safe. that is not the case at the moment. you might compare it to his apartment or his garden. if i can leave the door open, not have to build a fence, it's a very safe situation, and anyone who comes to me will be welcome. the only difference is that the situation is different now, because nobody knows who is coming to europe, who is moving through the various countries, how many criminals are there, how many terrorists are there. i therefore make it a point for my country - for austria - to demand unconditionally that we can regain control of our borders, and for all other countries too, until such time as it is ensured that neither criminals nor terrorists nor persons whose whereabouts and origin no one can determine exactly will be allowed to enter our country and our continent.
i have to say, madam president, a substantial part of our discussion of schengen is devoted to greece. it is true that greece is the focus of attention at the moment. but are we not looking at just a small part of the problem here? if the route shifts, we will find to our surprise that there are equally large deficits at the other external borders. we must realise that saving schengen is not a real question that can be answered with a yes or no. in reality, it is a moral obligation to protect our external borders with a common border management system in order to keep internal borders open. this border security must be based on trust, solidarity and fairness towards third-country nationals. the european parliament and the commission have already taken steps in the right direction. as is often the case, however, it seems to be failing the member states. we must be honest with ourselves and our people: schengen is more than the abolition of passport controls; schengen is a european achievement, the heart of the union and a necessary condition for prosperity and growth.
i have to say, madam president, the renewal of border controls is a serious intervention. it is a risk that we will become accustomed to it and that the europe we know will be fundamentally changed, changed beyond recognition. many now see the reintroduction of border controls as a domestic political panacea, as at brenner. it is positive that the commission and the council are aware of the problem, but i do not agree with the solutions. this is also linked to the poor quality of the debate. such serious measures should be discussed in depth and transparently, and not just at the level of ambassadors and in a ministerial council on development aid, as is happening now. the european parliament should be involved and not just informed. i would remind you that three years ago we as the european parliament asked to be included in the schengen evaluation mechanism. the council turned a blind eye to us. that was a very bad decision.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the commission is not prepared to accept this. eur 70 billion is lost annually to the member states of the european region through aggressive tax planning by multinational companies. the fight against tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning is therefore a top priority for national budgets. it is also important to create a level playing field for multinational companies and small and mediumsized enterprises. we know that smes or mediumsized enterprises in europe pay on average one third more in corporation tax than multinationals. it is also important for transparency - which is why the report we are discussing today is of particular importance - but also for creating effective taxation at the place of value creation, that is to say, profits should be taxed where economic activity takes place. tax evasion is a global problem, so we need global solutions to this problem. the oecd beps initiative, a 15-point action plan to combat profit-shrinking and profit shifting, is a very important point in this context. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption. more than 100 countries around the world have already committed to international information exchange, including panama, as we heard today, but only the united states has not yet done so. delaware has more mailbox companies than people. europe has gone one step further, however, with country-by-country reporting, a mandatory country-by-country reporting for multinational corporations with a turnover of over 750 million euros. these groups must declare to the tax authorities turnover, profits and also income taxes payable and paid. however, this threshold affects a very large number of companies, i.e. 10% of all companies worldwide, and 90% of the turnover generated in this sector (about 6500 companies) is affected. the important thing here is that europe does not act alone, but that it is included in this global concert, in these oecd beps provisions, as the rapporteur and the commissioner have said. no double standards for europe, no competitive disadvantages for european companies! it is therefore important to keep the turnover limit at eur 750 million, to coordinate the scope of information exchange and also the type of disclosure. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr rosati, in particular, for his efforts to ensure that european companies do not suffer from competitive disadvantages.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. we have been advocating country-by-country reporting for years, and we have already implemented it with banks. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. however, it must be made clear that this can only be a first step. country-by-country reporting needs to be global and public, because only publicity will make it clear which countries and which companies are promising. smes pay taxes, and large companies have been able to cope better in the past with fragmented tax legislation in europe. this has to end! this is not about trade secrets, this is about more transparency and comparability in the european single market. tax competition requires equal tax conditions. and there must be no more letterbox companies in europe - and hopefully soon globally - that make millions without employees. taxation is to be paid where value is created and jobs are created. transparency is the prerequisite for finally closing all tax loopholes.
in writing. mandatory country-by-country reporting for multinational companies is one of the commission's main legislative offensives against tax avoidance practices by multinational enterprises. the tax inequality in favour of corporations and wealthy individuals is a problem of democratic politics. we know that wealthy people are in the grey area of the law, and they can choose which rules they follow in their home countries and which they don't. transparency is a fundamental weapon in the fight against tax avoidance and evasion! the automatic exchange of information will make a major contribution to improving cooperation between tax authorities and to ensuring greater transparency. but to do that, the country-by-country reporting must be made public! the publication of certain information is essential for the comparability of indicators and is not as some claim a trade secret. it must be possible to see how many employees a company has in which country, and how productivity, turnover and profit develop in relation to the number of employees in each country. we can only achieve full transparency if these indicators, which are important indicators for potential letterbox companies, are published. a second point is the level of the threshold: we need to ensure that as many companies as possible are covered - not just the biggest ones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively.
in writing. the aim of this resolution on food labelling is to ensure greater transparency and fairness. the high quality of our food must be visible! only fair labelling can be the key to transparency. we want to know whether the food on our plates is cheaply imported or of top austrian quality. the 'covering labels' must be ended! only with eu-wide origin labelling can we guarantee product safety and make animal welfare demonstrable. the commission is therefore invited to develop legislative proposals as a matter of urgency for the mandatory indication of the origin of meat in processed foods, as well as milk and processed dairy products such as cheese and ovens. but if we are talking about honest and fair food labelling, then we must also include eggs and egg products in the list. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i will continue to insist on honest labelling. for animal welfare and for domestic production.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we greens very much welcome today's report on the parental leave directive. as rapporteur maria arena has already said, the directive has been in existence for some time, but it has not achieved the objectives it seeks to achieve, namely reconciliation of work and family life for men and women, but also women's employment. this means that there is an urgent need for an evaluation of the directive on the one hand, but also for an ambitious amendment of the directive on the other. today's report also strengthens the social europe as a whole, which is so essential for the citizens of europe and for the confidence of the citizens of europe in europe. after the regrettable withdrawal of the maternity directive, a legislative proposal for a new work-life balance package, which the commissioner has already mentioned, would now be a real necessity. the report we are voting on today was very important to us greens. many of these have already been raised, such as raising the minimum length of parental leave from four to six months, but also that there should be adequate income replacement during parental leave. there are still a number of member states which do not have any income tax at all. but also the non-transferability of parental leave to promote paternity leave and the introduction of a minimum standard of two weeks of paternity leave would be a milestone for mothers and fathers and children in europe. we hope that all the groups in this house will take up this opportunity today to strengthen social europe and also women's employment and paternity leave, and that there is a large majority in this house.
i have to say, madam president, the republic of djibouti is situated in a region in crisis. what happens in the horn of africa has direct implications for europe. terrorism, repression, material hardship and lack of state structures are the causes of large-scale refugee movements. the republic of djibouti is a small country and could therefore also be an island of stability perhaps even a model for the region. europe is providing the country with relevant support. this support is important, but the developments discussed today are a cause for great concern. human rights, the situation of elections and freedom of the press are all things that we must look at very critically and i think we should not only talk about the development in this country, but we must finally draw consequences from it.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve the efficiency of cooperation between the administrative authorities of the member states in order to combat harmful tax practices. the cooperation of member states through the exchange of country-specific reports enables national tax authorities to take more effective action in the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning by multinational enterprise groups. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ if i had been present at the vote, i would have voted in favour of this report. it is a very positive step to counteract aggressive corporate tax planning. the commission also proposes further security guarantees to allow the european commission to access the information concerned.
in writing. ‒ the report on the obligation to exchange information automatically in the field of taxation focuses on cooperation between the administrative authorities of the member states to combat harmful tax practices. the aim of cooperation between member states is to facilitate the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning.
in writing. ‒ this resolution expresses serious concern that fishery products sold on the european market are often incorrectly labelled and calls on member states to strengthen national controls. it calls for better traceability of fishery and aquaculture products. there is no way to counter this demand. i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this critical resolution because it also calls for stronger controls, for example on unprocessed fish for catering and restaurants, in order to combat fraud in particular.
in writing. ‒ the spö-eu delegation abstained on efdd amendment 7, as the resolution already clearly states that the european parliament is against the recognition of china's market economy status as long as the 5 criteria of the european union are not met. the socialist group has taken the lead on this issue from the outset and has finally succeeded in placing the debate on china on the agenda for the plenary and in passing a strong resolution. it was therefore of great importance to the social democrats to obtain the widest possible support for this resolution, but this would have jeopardized support for amendment no 7.
in writing. ‒ the spö-eu delegation abstained on efdd amendment 7, as the resolution already clearly states that the european parliament is against the recognition of china's market economy status as long as the 5 criteria of the european union are not met. the socialist group has taken the lead on this issue from the outset and has finally succeeded in placing the debate on china on the agenda for the plenary and in passing a strong resolution. it was therefore of great importance to the social democrats to obtain the widest possible support for this resolution, but this would have jeopardized support for amendment no 7.
in writing. ‒ the spö-eu delegation abstained on efdd amendment 7, as the resolution already clearly states that the european parliament is against the recognition of china's market economy status as long as the 5 criteria of the european union are not met. the socialist group has taken the lead on this issue from the outset and has finally succeeded in placing the debate on china on the agenda for the plenary and in passing a strong resolution. it was therefore of great importance to the social democrats to obtain the widest possible support for this resolution, but this would have jeopardized support for amendment no 7.
in writing. ‒ automatic recognition of the people's republic of china as a market economy would lead to enormous problems and massive job losses for european industry and tens of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. market distortion with negative effects on employment, growth and innovation, especially in key european industries, would then be unavoidable. i therefore vote against the proposal because it is far too softly worded, lacks a clear position and only with reservations stands behind a refusal to grant china market economy status.
in writing. ‒ if i had been present at the vote, i would have voted in favour of this report, as i believe that we must protect our european industry from cheap imports. as long as china does not meet the five eu criteria for market economy status, the european union should continue to impose anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties on dumped low-priced imports from the country.
in writing. ‒ china is not eligible for em status because its economic system is contrary to western systems. examples of this are the lack of autonomy of the banking system, the extreme form of planned economy and the unparalleled influence of a political party.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this resolution. the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals will be used to give the commission new powers and mechanisms that it could then use without restriction to implement the agenda without prior consultation and agreement of the member states .
in writing. ‒ if i had been present at the votes, i would have voted in favour of this report. the report is intended to take account of the democratic and political latitude of the government.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for mandatory origin labelling for milk, milk products and meat. from the consumer's point of view, traceability of the production cycle and origin labelling are very important, as they serve to protect consumers and strengthen their rights. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ if i had been present at the vote, i would have voted in favour of this report. i believe that consumers should be able to see the origin of their product. the commission is invited to promote the compulsory designation of origin for milk, milk products and meat.
in writing. ‒ the authors of the resolution first point to the benefits of mandatory origin labelling for products such as meat and milk. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission is invited to promote the compulsory indication of origin for milk, milk products and meat. the commission is invited to submit legislative proposals in this respect. the commission is also asked to promote labelling for the greatest possible protection of animals during rearing, transport and slaughter. the commission also proposes to include eggs and egg products in the list of products which must be marked with an indication of their origin. the epp's amendments once again show its true face: consumer protection and the consumer's right to know where a product comes from is, in the epp's view, a negligible luxury that could hamper the internal market.
in writing. ‒ behind better family planning that benefits children's development, this report seeks to create a european mandate for family policy. this attempt goes beyond the eu's contractual competences. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ if i had been present at the vote, i would have voted against this report. the report also includes parental leave for same-sex couples, and in my view this report only supports the gender mainstream rather than thinking about more important approaches.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the report 'preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims from a gender perspective' in the votes. the commission also adopted a report on the implementation of the eu's new law on the protection of the environment, which aims to improve the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the report deals with trafficking in human beings and in this context prostitution is characterised by the oppression of women and girls, who constitute 80% of the victims of trafficking in human beings. it is my personal belief that guidelines following the scandinavian model can be quite effective in the context of preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and that punishment can have a deterrent effect against the solicitation of sexual services from victims of trafficking in human beings. the whole report is a milestone in the fight against trafficking in human beings, especially women.
in writing. ‒ member states are invited to identify existing legal gaps in human trafficking and adapt their policies accordingly in order to more effectively punish such crimes. in this context, member states are invited to ratify international treaties on trafficking in human beings and to incorporate them into their national legal systems. however, the report aims to promote lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender groups in the context of gender equality and to grant a right to citizenship to immigrants who are victims of trafficking. i therefore do not agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ if i had been present at the vote, i would have voted against this report. i am firmly opposed to gender mainstreaming in all union policies and in the national policies based on it.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the report 'preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims from a gender perspective' in the votes. the commission also adopted a report on the implementation of the eu's new law on the protection of the environment, which aims to improve the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the report deals with trafficking in human beings and in this context prostitution is characterised by the oppression of women and girls, who constitute 80% of the victims of trafficking in human beings. it is my personal belief that guidelines following the scandinavian model can be quite effective in the context of preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and that punishment can have a deterrent effect against the solicitation of sexual services from victims of trafficking in human beings. the whole report is a milestone in the fight against trafficking in human beings, especially women.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i'm not going to tell you. ladies and gentlemen, first of all, commissioner hill, thank you for answering our question. we have asked this question because laws adopted and prepared on the conversion of foreign currency loans in romania, poland and croatia - sometimes even retroactively - are shaking the confidence of citizens and investors. the credibility, legal certainty and trust are undermined. recent steps have raised serious concerns about the reliability, predictability and stability of the legal framework not only in these countries but also in the european union. and the european central bank has been clear that these measures have negative effects on financial stability, on the banking sector and on the real economy, and they pose a great risk of contagion to the rest of the member states. i therefore say very clearly: europe's populists - and there is a connection here - must not shake the foundations of our legal order if they are out for short-term votes. the rule of law is one of the cornerstones of the common european idea! we must defend the european union as a community of law and values and must not allow confidence and credibility to be eroded retroactively in violation of european law. i would like to ask you a few supplementary questions in this connection. you clipped it, but you didn't answer it completely. which states have informed the commission in advance of the draft legislation, as is required by eu law? what measures do you intend to take to make it clear to states that are about to have such debates that this is contrary to eu law - namely the freedom of capital - and what dangers this poses? how can you believe that the key pillars of the common european policy, such as the free movement of capital and legal certainty, can continue to apply if regulations are introduced whereby loans are suddenly re-indebted retroactively at a historical interest rate? europe's economic strength has been and is its rule of law and its freedom to conduct business. let us therefore work together to ensure that short-term populist measures or emerging risks do not jeopardise these strengths.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. they presented us with a digital single market strategy about a year ago, one of the key points of which was to improve online access for consumers and businesses. this item comprised four sub-items. the first point is better rules for cross-border e-commerce. you said at the time that 11.7 billion euros could be saved for consumers per year if there were better online shopping. secondly, low-cost cross-border parcel delivery, knowing that high prices and inefficient parcel delivery are of course hindering online trade. the third point is to prevent geoblocking, which certainly requires a balance between consumer interests and legal certainty for businesses. the last point: better access to digital content. i would say that the package presented today will certainly lead to an improvement in consumer protection. online shopping will become easier and cheaper. will the consumers be satisfied? if they can buy online but the retailer does not have to deliver, this may upset some. but in general, i'm sure it's leading to improvement. trust is also improved by taking fraudulent websites off the net and better identification is needed. and i am sure that the national budgets will also be grateful to you for having fixed the 20% quota for audiovisual content of european origin. this is certainly a very interesting development and will be very welcome to the cultural budgets of the countries.
the commission has already done so. i can only agree with the previous speaker that we must look at the issue in a broader perspective. it is good and right to have a strategy for a digital single market now, but we also need one for a digital society, and i miss that a little bit in the way you are putting it. i have had journalists, journalism students, come to me now and ask me what the biggest problem is with working in the european parliament. i think one of the biggest problems is the lack of a european public. we need this for european democracy, for european society. if i look at the proposal that we want to remove geo-blocking for games, but not for videos, you can see how much this proposal is market-driven and how little it is sociopolitical, democratic. because from the point of view of news, of producing news itself, of starting a public european debate, video is far more important than games. it is not just a question of the market, it is a question of a social policy project, which is what we should think of the internet, and i do not see that in this commission. commissioner oettinger is not only the commissioner for the digital economy, he is the commissioner for the digital economy and society. in this sense we should work on this package, we should add more, we should bring more into it and we should not only look at the 500 million europeans as consumers and protect them, but we should look at them as citizens, as voters, as participants in european democracy and work on the package in this sense. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. it's hard to answer that in 30 seconds, of course. but i tried to explain: with geoblocking, for example, the criterion has to be that we allow the widest possible publicity and that we do not design geoblocking in such a way that it develops maximum profit for companies and that we only evaluate the commercial basis. we've had this in discussions about net neutrality and other things. we make different political choices when we want to support a business model that is as profitable as possible or when the perspective is to allow as much communication as possible for citizens. it is not the same direction of attack, and i think we as a parliament should always opt for the option which allows more communication, freer communication for our citizens.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. my question is in the direction of: we have a single internal market in roaming charges next year. do you think it is possible to move away from national borders in parcel services and to respond accordingly to distance or to individual markets? because even with parcel services, we often have ten times the price, even if it's only two kilometers across the border.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to tell you. my question is, when will the technical framework for 5g technology be negotiated at the itu? are there talks with america? i was in washington last week to propose common standards here. when will there be a proposal for harmonisation of frequencies and for uniform auctioning in all 28 member states? do you think that the 'connecting europe' facility could help us to strengthen fibre-optic connections across borders and, in particular, to implement the radio masts that we will need for the 5g rollout accordingly? will 2018 be the time when europe can adopt this new technology like other countries? my second question is this: in the area of unfair business practices, which this proposal also covers, i have recently received a proposal to update my apple software, and i have read the terms and conditions; there are 600 lines that should be accepted here. is there any commission thinking here that the general terms and conditions that one has to accept when buying a device, when updating software, when updating an app, are designed to be consumer friendly and also create a legal framework for companies to rely on?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not - i'm not sure. we've been dealing with this for a long time. we have actually been debating the safe harbour issue controversially over and over again in a variety of formations, and there has always been an uncertainty that was ultimately resolved by a citizen's lawsuit, and this schrems judgment has gone down in history and has shown us that it is very important that we eliminate uncertainties. the privacy shield seeks to eliminate these uncertainties. they presented the main lines to us in february and it is clear that progress has been made, that we have been able to clarify certain matters with our american partners here, in accordance with the case law. i think that it is still a situation where we still have uncertainties, where we still do not have the very great clarity, and that of course also means the risk of being brought before the courts again. that would not necessarily be good for our image as legislators, as executives, and it's not good for the industry either. we the libe committee were in the us last week, and we could see that there is a great understanding of the european position, that there is a will in the us to meet the principles of justice. this is true for government agencies as well as for the data industry. i think that more could have been done, but i think that this resolution sets out the criteria which are very important. we need more clarity, especially when such wording is used as 'written assurance' of what legal nature this is, we need clarity about the ombudsperson. it was not so clear what we saw there, and the judicial redress, which is so important, should also be seen in this light, if the wording 'only for eu citizens' is not enough, because we also have third country nationals in europe who are protected by the charter of fundamental rights. so these uncertainties have to be removed. it is important that we have these agreements, and the framework agreement is also a great step forward, because we could not have achieved anything on our own. we can only do this together. but i appeal to you to really clear up these ambiguities, otherwise we'll have a new discussion with a new brand, which will be called something like... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the european energy market is currently undergoing a profound transformation and we need to ensure that consumers are at the heart of this change. only a competitive, transparent and liberalised internal market will ensure that consumers also benefit from this change. this is why a new deal for energy consumers is urgently needed. but it has to be a new deal that also empowers consumers to make informed decisions and participate actively in the marketplace, rather than patronizing them. as the alde shadow rapporteur for this report, i am convinced that the best measures to reduce consumption and costs are more competition, better information and better consumer involvement. first, we must ensure that there is real competition in the energy market and that switching between suppliers is facilitated. the same applies to the gradual abolition of regulated prices. secondly, we need clear, transparent and easily accessible information for consumers, especially in relation to energy billing. thirdly, it is important to improve the opportunities for consumers to enter the market, including as producers and investors. information technologies such as smart meters, smart grids or online platforms can open up new avenues, particularly in terms of demand management. we also need to break down the barriers that exist for prosumers. prosumers can actively contribute to improving energy efficiency and will play an important role in the further development of the energy system in the future. this is the only way to create a successful european internal energy market.
in writing. the energy poverty debate is often mixed with the general debate on renewable energy. this is factually incorrect and requires the following clarifications: (1) if price spikes are allowed for renewables, then you need conventional power plants to provide backup capacity. this ensures demand and protects vulnerable customers. (2) it is not the energy source per se that harms disadvantaged customers, but unfair marketing practices, because these lead to a loss of confidence and ultimately reduce individual commitment. in principle, the more competitive the energy market, the better for consumers. the increasing number of customers switching energy suppliers is evidence of this. the options for increasing customer participation should be as broad as possible and as little standardised. common interactive campaigns and standards for invoice layout are ways to increase consumer engagement, alongside apps, brochures, hotlines, one-stop shops, etc. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. there should also be no subsidies, for switch campaigns as well as for in-house production.
in writing. the continuing austerity policies in the social sphere in recent years and the still existing gender pay gap are particularly damaging to women in europe, making them the biggest losers of the economic crisis. the fact is that around 65 million women across the eu are affected by poverty and social exclusion, compared with 58 million men. poverty in europe is female. we must take specific measures to identify the main causes of poverty among women and combat them effectively. the report adopted by my socialist colleague, mrs maria arena, sets out the course for effectively combating poverty among women, which is essential if we are to solve this problem at european level. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the regions. in the area of childcare and care of dependants, in particular, there is a greater need for financial resources to effectively relieve women. equal opportunities are also fundamental, as is the need to ensure that everyone has unrestricted access to high-quality public education and services. europe must act now to end the cycle of poverty for the next generation and their children. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote equal opportunities for women and to promote equal opportunities for men and women. i therefore support the report wholeheartedly.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you once again for being available to the forestry managers very early this morning. we had a really great discussion about sustainable forest management. thank you again for working around the clock today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have not had the opportunity to produce in a cost-effective way for a long time, especially in the mountainous and less-favoured areas. austria has always been in favour of maintaining a quantity control system, but was voted down in 2003. but we know, and we see - especially if we follow this discussion today - that it will not work only in liberalised markets. our farmers have adapted, have met all these demands of society. in austria, for example, we are now producing a very high proportion of non-gmo, organic, home-milk production and much more. it is now necessary to take real action an indication of origin. the dumping of the trade chains and many other things which really affect our farmers massively in production and which of course also lead to this crisis must be corrected. here's the real call to action.
i have to say, madam president, as we speak, milk prices are falling all over europe. in austria they are currently 28 cents, in germany they may soon be under 20 cents, and i am surprised that mrs köstinger is talking about a quantity limit, when our austrian minister for agriculture is clearly not in favour of a quota system! ladies and gentlemen, if this continues, we shall have a mass extinction of farmers throughout europe! in austria alone, 6,000 farms are at risk! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the milk is not affected by the fact that the milk is not produced in the same way as the milk produced in the other member states. what we need, ladies and gentlemen, is not a long debate. it means acting quickly, or we'll have a farmer's death in all of europe! we know very well that we are taking action here, and one of the first measures would be to suspend or reinstate the milk quota. we do not need alms-takers as farmers, but we need farmers who produce excellent quality, who supply excellent quality, we need fair prices for fair milk! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - the mayor! can you explain the difference between a quantity control instrument and the quota, because you just mentioned that? or do you not see the difference?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mrs köstinger. we have often discussed the question of milk and milk products, overproduction. i asked you years ago if you knew what a full cost account means to a farmer. you dodged me there. i know the differences very well without being a farmer. i would expect you to make a clear statement today on whether we should consider suspending the milk quota system today. speak up and make your point very clear.
in writing. the liberalisation of the eu milk market with the abolition of the milk production quota in march 2015 is the reason for the low milk prices. this liberalization has left austrian farmers in the lurch. you don't have to be a scientist to see this connection. however, the liberalisation of the eu milk market cannot be blamed for this crisis alone. the european union's sanctions against russia have also played a part. after the european union decided on sanctions against russia, russia responded by banning imports of dairy products. this has led to a massive overproduction in the milk sector, which in turn has led to a massive fall in milk prices. the current milk price is threatening the livelihoods of many farmers, and experts are already predicting further price losses for 2016. we must act now!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the first thing that i would like to stress is that equal pay for equal work in the same place is also a fundamental principle of the european internal market. the single market is one of the cornerstones of european integration. it is based on the four freedoms which must be respected but also enforced. and that is why i repeat it again: equal pay for equal work in the same place - that is part of this report. in an age of increasing globalisation and digitalisation, trade in goods and services across europe is creating many new and innovative business models and opportunities. we must strategically design the single market so that the opportunities it offers can be used as efficiently as possible and for the benefit of society as a whole. the internal market must therefore be fair and equitable. this also means that in our social market economy - as we have already imposed on ourselves in the eu treaty - services of general economic interest are also sufficiently respected. finally, i would like to emphasize one aspect of the comi report, namely the question of taxation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ a balanced, technical-focused report on virtual currencies and decentralised transaction network technology. virtual currencies have not yet reached a systemic dimension and there is currently no need for regulation. the report proposes that experts monitor the development of this technology to monitor the development of systemic relevance and, if appropriate, to provide regulatory options. there's nothing to counter that. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this is a report on virtual currency and decentralised transaction network technology. virtual currency is not yet systemically relevant, so i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report covers virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology. virtual currencies such as bitcoin have not yet reached a system-relevant dimension, so there is no need for regulation yet. the report proposes that experts should monitor the development of this technology. the proposal also contains positive proposals, but it is too vague in some basic areas.
in writing. ‒ the report covers virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology. virtual currencies have not yet reached a systemic dimension, so there is no need for regulation at present. the report proposes that experts should monitor the development of this technology so that regulations can be reconsidered in the event of increased relevance. the proposal contains some approaches which are worth pursuing, but it is too vague in some elementary areas.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report as the application submitted for the mobilisation of the egf fulfils the conditions for a financial contribution to be made. it is my personal concern to reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation into the labour market in the best possible way and to give them the opportunity to adapt their skills to the new challenges.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to distribute funds from the globalisation fund to french workers. the amount of approximately eur 5 million is to be allocated to measures to reintegrate people into the labour market. i can only support this.
in writing. ‒ the case concerns a possible call for funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for france. some eur 5 million will be allocated to measures to reintegrate people into the labour market. the application concerns 2 132 workers made redundant in the 'land transport and long-distance pipeline transport' sector. a sector which in france has suffered particularly badly from the effects of the financial crisis. i see that the conditions for mobilisation under the egf are clearly fulfilled.
in writing. the application concerns a possible mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in favour of france. the commission is also proposing to provide a loan of some eur 5 million for measures to reintegrate people into the labour market. the application concerns 2 132 redundancies in the 'land and pipeline transport' sector, which in france has been particularly affected by the financial crisis. the circumstances described clearly justify the use of the egf.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report as the application submitted for the mobilisation of the egf fulfils the conditions for a financial contribution to be made. it is my personal concern to reintegrate workers who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation into the labour market in the best possible way and to give them the opportunity to adapt their skills to the new challenges.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to distribute funds from the globalisation fund to greek workers. the amount of approximately eur 6.5 million is to be allocated to measures to reintegrate people into the labour market. this is 557 redundancies and 543 young people in the retail sector. i am concerned about supporting these workers. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ the application concerns a possible mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in favour of greece. some eur 6.5 million will be allocated to measures to reintegrate people into the labour market. the application concerns 557 redundant workers and 543 young people in the retail trade excluding motor vehicles. i see that the conditions for mobilisation under the egf are clearly fulfilled.
in writing. ‒ the application concerns a possible mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in favour of greece. the commission is also proposing to provide a loan of some eur 6.5 million for measures to reintegrate people into the labour market. the application concerns 557 redundant workers and 543 young people in the retail trade, excluding motor vehicles, a sector which in greece is particularly affected by the weakening of the purchasing power of greek households due to the sharp decline in lending to businesses and individuals. the circumstances described clearly justify the use of the egf.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr buonanno. the waiver of immunity is in the interest of the member to allow the investigating authority access to telephone records, as he received threatening calls. i agree with that report.
in writing. ‒ the case concerns the waiver of the immunity of mep gianluca buonanno. this one hasn't committed a crime. this is just about solving the threat calls he received. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ the subject is the waiver of the immunity of mep gianluca buonanno in response to threatening calls received by him, mainly in april 2015. the purpose of the procedure is to obtain from telephone companies the data required by the deputy prosecutor of the vercelli court of first instance concerning telephone connections, using a telephone number used by the member. this is a waiver of immunity necessary for clarification.
in writing. ‒ this concerns the waiver of the immunity of mep gianluca buonanno in relation to the investigation of threatening calls received in april 2015. the purpose of the withdrawal is to obtain the required data from telephone companies concerning telephone connections via a telephone number used by the member. this is a waiver of immunity necessary for clarification.
in writing. ‒ this report includes additional resources for unaccompanied minors, increased access to national health and education systems and more money to address the migration crisis in general. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ this is an amendment to an original application. the commission is also proposing to provide additional funds for the integration of refugees. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns amendments to the original request, which calls for additional resources to be made available for the care of unaccompanied minors in terms of healthcare, housing and education. although keller rejects the original application, he does so only to ensure that sweden fulfils its 'obligations' as a 'positive example of an asylum country'.
in writing. ‒ the request concerns amendments to the original request, which calls for additional resources to be made available for the care of unaccompanied minors in terms of healthcare, housing and education. although keller rejects the original application, he does so only to ensure that sweden fulfils its 'obligations' as a 'positive example of an asylum country'.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for a regular review of the proper application of the agreement and its conformity with eu primary and secondary law. the commission has also proposed that the data protection rules should be amended to take account of the new data protection rules. i shall abstain on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the insensitive handling of personal data is criticised. however, these guidelines fall far short of what is needed. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ it concerns the exchange of data with the usa. despite legitimate and well-reasoned criticism of the handling of sensitive data, the overall approach of the proposal falls short. the eu citizen is not guaranteed adequate protection of his data.
in writing. ‒ these requests concern data exchange with the usa. while the right criticism of the insensitive handling of personal data is being made, it is also being overlooked that the proposed directives fall far short of providing adequate protection for eu citizens' data.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a common approach to energy poverty. such a complex issue, which depends primarily on the specific circumstances in the member states, can be better dealt with by social policy measures at national level rather than by a community approach to social policy measures at european level. the report also has a market-anticipating approach, which could harm the dynamism of the european energy landscape. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ strengthening consumer rights is worth supporting. but this is an attempt to exploit consumer law. that is why i do not support this report.
in writing. ‒ in principle, measures to strengthen consumer rights should always be viewed positively. however, this is an inefficient and inflexible 'one-size-fits-all' social policy at european level. this is to be rejected.
in writing. ‒ in principle, measures to strengthen consumer rights and consumer market power should be supported. but if, as in this case, the above-mentioned motives are misused to pursue an inefficient and inflexible 'one-size-fits-all' social policy at european level, then i will not support this.
in writing. ‒ the report seeks to harmonise legislation in the context of gender mainstreaming from different areas. i am voting against this report because i do not think it is within the competence of the eu to harmonize these laws. it would be better to take action at national level, adapted to the specific situations in the member states.
in writing. ‒ this is not about gender equality. this is about gender mainstreaming and lgbt. i cannot therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ under the guise of a serious issue, issues such as gender mainstreaming and so-called lgbt (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) interests are hidden.
in writing. ‒ contrary to the reasoning, this report is not an objective examination of this issue. rather, some of the points are about promoting issues such as gender mainstreaming and so-called lgbt (lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) interests in many areas.
in writing. ‒ while the administrative simplifications envisaged in this report are welcome, the strengthening of the internal market, which is in principle to be welcomed, is being used to achieve centralising tendencies. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ this is a non-tariff barriers to trade issue. the commission is proposing to set up a european centre for the development of vocational training. i reject this dictatorial economic policy.
in writing. ‒ it is about non-tariff barriers to trade. unjustified national technical, legal or similar rules are intended to affect the market negatively. i believe that these restrictions are justified, but they must be abolished. the overall aim is to reduce the autonomy of the individual state.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on non-tariff barriers to trade. it is argued that 'unjustified' national technical, legal or similar rules are particularly detrimental. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i will abstain on this report. while it provides some tax advantages for small and mediumsized enterprises, it also calls for measures that i am critical of, such as a single eu vat.
in writing. ‒ the report has good approaches, especially in the area of sme support. however, on the other hand, the benefits for large groups have been positively addressed. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the completion of the internal market is desired in the tradition of the barroso and juncker commissions, which, contrary to the report, cannot be evaluated only positively. in addition to the good approaches in the report, especially in the area of sme support, these positives are unfortunately partially offset by incentives, especially for large groups.
in writing. ‒ this report shows some good approaches, especially in the area of sme support, but unfortunately these positives are partially offset by incentives, especially for large groups.
in writing. when milk is sold cheaper than water, it's a scandal! the price-setting policy at the expense of farmers must come to an end. commercial corporations that sell milk and meat as a lure at below the asking price are failing to produce sustainable food at the expense of our farmers and consumers. what our farmers need is not more analysis and inventories of unfair trading practices in the food trade, but a european framework legislation that systematically tackles producer blackmail and undercutting! the dominance of the corporations gives farmers delays in payment, unilateral contract changes and advance payments to supermarkets as entry fees. it's not a market economy anymore. the commission must therefore swiftly counter this fatal misconduct with effective enforcement mechanisms and effective sanctions. quality food has a price. but the status quo is nothing but profit maximisation by corporations and their lobbyists. this opens the door to mass production. i'm not good at that. both our farmers and consumers have a right to the long-term production of high quality food in europe.
the commission has already done so. it is quite interesting how emotionally a debate on tax avoidance can be conducted. it is also interesting to see that two groups in this house are agreeing, by means of a blue card, how they will vote today on the report on combating tax evasion. so this is a very interesting debate, and i would say that it shows how important the issue of combating tax evasion is here in this house and at european level. it is an important issue and i think there is broad agreement that the three main points of this issue are the following, there is agreement on this: effective taxation at the place of value creation, that is, profits should be taxed where they are actually generated. more transparency: we recently brought up country-by-country reporting in this house, we voted on automatic exchange of information. transparency is important. and thirdly, as has already been mentioned today, fair competition for all companies. it cannot be that small and mediumsized enterprises pay, as a rule, one third more corporation tax than large companies. this is unfair, this is not fair competition, and it is also detrimental to europe in the end. fair competition also means fair competition on a global scale. the oecd has set out a very important measure in the beps action plan, namely this 15-point action plan. more than 100 member states and non-oecd countries have committed to comply with this action plan and to automatically exchange financial account information from 2018. even panama has done so under international pressure over the affair. the report we are voting on today departs in some very important respects from these guidelines of the oecd beps action plan, which i personally consider to be a mistake. the commission's draft has adhered very closely to this draft, but the rapporteur has left it out: for example, the interest rate threshold which has already been mentioned today, 20 instead of 30 per cent on ebitda, which is a mistake, or the change from the exemption to the accrual method. the same applies to input taxation or hybrid taxation. if we want to stay competitive, we need to be globally... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you know, a lot of big companies don't pay their taxes, or they pay far too little. this is reprehensible, and it is therefore good, right and logical that the commission should put forward proposals to that effect. finally, companies should pay their taxes where they generate profits. we can't repeat that enough. in his report, hugues bayet has worked in this direction. we need a fundamental change in the system. tax avoidance and tax evasion and all these forms of aggressive tax planning are a democratic problem, but they also lead to huge distortions of competition, because the smes, the micro-enterprises, who pay their taxes very well, the employees anyway, and the big companies are picking it up. it is therefore high time that something was done at european level. the new and positive aspect is that in the case of artificial loans within a group of companies, as is so often the case with, for example, ikea, the profit is reduced by deductible interest. the demand for transparency in trusts and foundations is also important. mr commissioner, will you be making any comments? the possibilities for control by the authorities are also important. we see it all over europe: the austerity policy is also reducing the financial authorities, especially those who are supposed to control, especially in the southern countries. so here are three call signs also addressed to the absent council. the point here is to increase the number of staff, not to reduce them. and very importantly, of course, the ban on the letterbox companies. only through mandatory country-wide disclosure can scaffolding companies such as letterbox companies be exposed as such. only through public country-by-country reporting is it possible to see which companies are generating how much revenue. and finally, i would like to remind you that i expect an explanation of why, for example, maltese employees of deutsche bank are three times more productive than their colleagues in the rest of europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we not only want, we urgently need stable financial markets. this was expressed because stable financial markets are the prerequisite for regaining public and our customers' confidence in the financial markets. the prerequisite for stable financial markets is regulation, where necessary, more transparency and control. the european parliament has placed investor protection at the heart of the reform of mifid and mifir, and enhanced investor protection can only be enforced if the technical conditions are met. the technical conditions were not there. the rapporteur has pointed out that there was a gap in supervision on the one hand and a lack of action on the other hand by the commission in the submission of delegated acts. the commission has also been asked to provide the council with a report on the implementation of the budget. mr ferber has pointed this out and i should like to thank him sincerely for taking advantage of this recess with the council. although we have used this time, although the implementation problems have now been corrected and the legislative framework has been reformed, we need an extension to remain in the language of football. it must be said that even in the longer term, deadlines are short and detailed work is extensive. whoever lets the reins grind now will have a bad awakening. the call is to the commission and to the companies to use the time gained and the restructuring of the project so that we finally have more stable financial markets from the new period of 3 january 2018. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, as you know, central banks are independent. in the case of all central banks, the national parliaments and the national public are the controllers, and in the context of the european union, it is the european parliament. so if problems arise, they are discussed publicly and corrected within the legal possibilities and responsibilities.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we are agreeing today that the reform of the securities market, that is, the regulation of financial instruments, will be postponed for one year. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. but the fact is that neither the regulators nor the financial industry are ready for implementation next year. the regulatory framework is too complex and mifid ii is designed to draw the right conclusions from the financial crisis of 2007-2009 and to take account of the rapid progress in securities trading. the objective of mifid is to increase transparency and, in particular, to strengthen investor protection. this will require stronger and more stringent reporting requirements for banks and trading houses. the raw materials industry is also affected, as has already been mentioned today. in future, commodity dealers will be treated as financial institutions and their hedging operations will be backed by equity. this is determined by two size criteria: the share of speculative derivatives in the trading volume and a market share test. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. however, commodity traders are not banks, and the commissioner has addressed this issue: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation concerns the framework convention on tobacco control of the world health organisation. the convention was drawn up in response to the high level of tobacco consumption worldwide. it aims to tackle some of the causes, such as illicit trade in tobacco products. illicit trade in tobacco products, in particular cigarette smuggling, is a criminal offence which poses a serious threat to public health. that is why i am voting in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ the fctc protocol includes measures to combat illicit trade in tobacco products. in austria, we are therefore not paying 10 billion euros in taxes every year. i think that there is nothing to oppose.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is the most important initiative in the world against illicit trade in tobacco products. one in ten cigarettes is sold illegally within the european union. this represents an annual loss of revenue of eur 10 billion. the protocol also includes measures to combat illicit trade in tobacco products, including the traceability of the supply chain and manufacturing equipment.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this draft is a useful contribution to the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products and i am happy to support it.
in writing. ‒ the automotive industry has a well-integrated value chain involving almost all european member states. this report concerns a revision of the convention on the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for vehicles and their parts. the unece standards aim at harmonisation, which will sometimes reduce the cost of certification. this is clearly in the interests of the economy and i therefore agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ this is about reducing certification costs. this is to be achieved by means of uniform rules for wheeled vehicles under the unece convention. i think that makes sense.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of this report, since it is basically about reducing certification costs.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the reduction of certification costs through uniform technical regulations for wheeled vehicles under the unece convention. i think that there is nothing to oppose.
in writing. ‒ this report is purely technical in nature and concerns the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the eu/colombia-peru trade agreement. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget. i therefore vote in favour of the council taking the necessary legal steps.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with croatia's participation in the trade agreement as a natural consequence of eu accession. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒the rapporteur considers croatia's participation in the trade agreement to be a natural consequence of its accession to the eu. it is only appropriate that the commission and the council have taken the necessary legal steps to make this participation possible. i fully agree with this.
in writing. ‒ this report aims at enhanced cooperation among 18 member states to regulate more efficiently the areas of jurisprudence, recognition and enforcement of decisions concerning the property relations of 'international' couples. given that the enhanced cooperation instrument is voluntary and that the 10 remaining eu member states cannot be forced to harmonise, this extension of private international law is particularly appropriate. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament here gives its consent to enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions in the field of property relations between international couples. i think that makes sense and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is quite understandable that there is a need to regulate enhanced cooperation with all member states in the areas of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions in the field of property relations between international couples.
in writing. ‒ according to this report, the european parliament gives its consent to enhanced cooperation (between belgium, bulgaria, the czech republic, germany, greece, spain, france, croatia, italy, cyprus, luxembourg, malta, the netherlands, austria, portugal, slovenia, finland and sweden) so that those member states can regulate among themselves the areas of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions in the field of property relations of 'international' couples. this seems quite understandable to me.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the ratification of the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products. the aim of the protocol is to prevent all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. i am therefore voting in favour of this report because it is in favour of curbing the illicit trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ it calls for the implementation of the objectives of the fctc protocol. an action plan is to be in place by the end of 2016. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'smoking' in the wording of the directive. this is against the illegal trade in tobacco products and i therefore support this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is an important step towards tackling the illicit trade in tobacco products, together with other measures. the commission is also calling for an open standard in which all traceability systems can be integrated.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this recommendation is a useful contribution to the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products and i am happy to support it.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the requirements for the authorisation and management of investment firms, market regulation and related data provision services. since it cannot be ensured that the necessary data infrastructures will be in place and ready for use by 3 january 2017 in order to provide the necessary legal certainty and to prevent potential market disruption, the entry into force of the entire legal framework is postponed by 12 months. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this concerns the requirements for the authorisation and operation of investment firms in the context of regulated markets and data provision services. however, the data infrastructure will not be completed until early 2017. i therefore vote in favour of postponing the entry into force for 12 months.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft report because it deals with the requirements for the authorisation and operation of investment firms in the context of regulated markets and data provision services. the data infrastructure is not expected to be operational until the beginning of january 2017, so there would be only a limited operational data infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the requirements for the authorisation and operation of investment firms in the context of regulated markets and data provision services. as it is not expected that a sufficient data infrastructure will be ready for use by the beginning of january 2017, the date of application should be postponed by 12 months. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the requirements for the authorisation and management of investment firms, market regulation and related data provision services. since it cannot be ensured that the necessary data infrastructures will be in place and ready for use by 3 january 2017 in order to provide the necessary legal certainty and to prevent potential market disruption, the entry into force of the entire legal framework is postponed by 12 months. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ again, this concerns the requirements for the authorisation and operation of investment firms in the context of regulated markets and data provision services. however, the data infrastructure will not be completed until early 2017. as for a80126/2016, i am in favour of postponing the entry into force by 12 months.
in writing. ‒ the report covers the requirements for the authorisation and operation of investment firms in the context of regulated markets and data provision services. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the requirements for the authorisation and operation of investment firms in the context of regulated markets and data provision services. as it is not expected that a sufficient data infrastructure will be ready for use by the beginning of january 2017, the date of application should be postponed by 12 months. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the nomination of the former lithuanian minister of finance as a member of the european court of auditors. this candidacy is not to be opposed.
in writing. ‒ mr šadžius is the former lithuanian minister of finance and has not incurred any debt. he seemed trustworthy at the cont hearing.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the rapporteur links the migration crisis with the need for greater policy coherence in the interests of progress. he sometimes supports the european agenda on migration currently being implemented and calls for a harmonised migration and asylum policy. it also calls for a european response to the refugee crisis that is not just about security concerns. these aspects are, however, to be criticized. i therefore do not agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ this report outlines the need for policy coherence for development (pce). there is nothing to object to in principle, but the current migration crisis is also analysed in a way that is far removed from reality. i cannot therefore agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against this report because it mentions partial arguments, such as the current migration crisis, which are analysed far from reality and from which conclusions are drawn that are totally unsustainable.
in writing. ‒ there is nothing in principle that can be said to oppose the promotion of policy coherence and thus the basic idea of this report. but when, as here, partial arguments such as the current migration crisis are analysed so far removed from reality and conclusions are drawn from them that are simply unsustainable, then i cannot in good conscience agree with that.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the issue of sustainable development in the context of the food gap in africa. it contains important approaches to improve food security in african states. the rapporteur does not attribute a specific competence to the countries mentioned, but the report as a whole is balanced. i therefore agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ this draft contains good practices on food security in the aforementioned african states. there are many things that need to be done. it also addresses the right issues. i therefore support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains very good approaches to food security in the aforementioned african countries. the draft mentions risks to national agricultural economies and the dangers to the water supply of small farmers and export-oriented investors.
in writing. ‒ the draft contains good practices on food security in the aforementioned african states. it recognises the dangers of export-oriented investors supplying small farmers with water and highlights the risks to national agricultural economies posed by multinational corporations. he also advocates a transparent system against land grabbing and corruption.
in writing. ‒ this report on international accounting standards addresses the important part on the supervisory framework for financial services. the application of international accounting standards strengthens the internal market and the competitiveness of enterprises (flow of capital and investment). that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this covers international accounting standards, the activities of the international accounting standards foundation (ifrs) and the european accounting advisory group of the financial services supervisory framework. the application of international accounting standards simplifies the comparison of annual and consolidated financial statements. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report is a factual assessment of international accounting standards. the application of international accounting standards simplifies annual and consolidated accounts and i believe that it is also useful. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is a very objective assessment of international accounting standards and the activities of the international accounting standards foundation (ifrs), the european accounting advisory group (efrag) and the public interest oversight board (piob). these are an important part of the supervisory framework for financial services. the application of international accounting standards, for example, simplifies the comparison of annual and consolidated financial statements. i think that makes sense.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur brings good ideas for more efficient coordination of simultaneous un operations. however, the report repeatedly refers to the common security and defence policy and to nato operations. that is why i abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this is about coordinating simultaneous un operations and it is emphasised that in the future more attention needs to be paid to a long-term solution. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting was adopted by the council on 14 december. however, there are some criticisms, such as the very vague and broadly interpretable wording in the field of future support activities. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this draft because, although it contains good ideas, it does tend in part towards an eu army. the future financing and the very vague and broadly interpretable wording of the future support activities are also criticisms.
in writing. ‒ while the draft has good approaches to coordinating simultaneous un operations, it is gradually moving towards an eu army. the future financing and the very vague and broadly interpretable wording of the future support activities are critical. that is why i have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this report addresses the issue of unfair trading practices in the food and non-food supply chains. i agree with this report because it is a good report for smes, but also for small food producers and the dairy industry.
in writing. ‒ the draft deals with unfair trading practices in the non-food and food supply chains. this has a major impact on our smes. the rapporteur calls for strong action to be taken to completely eliminate unfair trading practices in the eu food supply chain. i can therefore only give a positive assessment of this draft.
in writing. ‒ i also approved this report. the draft deals with unfair trading practices in the supply chain, which are particularly disadvantageous and unfair to small and mediumsized enterprises, including the dairy sector. i think the report contains very good suggestions for countering this trend.
in writing. ‒ the draft deals with unfair trading practices in the non-food and food supply chains. in this context, we see major disadvantages and unfair market conditions for small and mediumsized enterprises. the milk sector, for example, is among the most affected in austria. i therefore think that this report, which counters these developments, deserves our support.
in writing. ‒ while this report contains some useful ideas, the rapporteur draws conclusions that are not always comprehensible. i also do not see any clear rejection or distinction in this report of genetically modified organisms. i therefore abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the epp delegation in the european parliament voted against the explanations on the new breeding techniques for the following reasons: the commission is invited to provide clarification of the legal status of the breeding methods currently under review, based on sound legal analysis and scientific evidence. a qualification before the publication of this final report by the working party on new technologies is therefore not serious and is not supported by the opc delegation. the final report was accepted, however, because agriculture is a life-sustaining innovation. it is important that legislation should encourage and promote innovation and regulate where the precautionary principle requires it.
in writing. ‒ this is about better reconciliation of technical progress and agricultural production methods. this is intended to increase efficiency in production. however, i do not see the need for more rapid authorization procedures for plant protection products and provisional authorizations for low-risk active substances. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it calls for faster authorisation procedures for plant protection products or provisional authorisations. the draft also contains very good proposals which would appeal to smaller growers, but i think the faster approval procedures are a criticism.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this, although i support the value of small-scale breeders and local varieties, for example, and a scientifically independent regulatory framework. however, i cannot agree with the need for faster authorisation procedures for plant protection products and provisional authorisations for 'low-risk' active substances. i also think that the distinction between genetically modified farming and genetically engineered food is too narrow.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the promotion of innovation and the economic development of farms. the rapporteur has put forward interesting technical solutions, such as the increased use of drones, which could increase the productivity of european agriculture. in addition to these technical solutions, the report also addresses the fight against food waste. the rapporteur is against the patenting of naturally bred animal and plant species. all these aspects can have a positive effect on the productivity of our domestic agriculture. i therefore agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ the draft provides comprehensible approaches to increasing the productivity of the agricultural sector. however, some issues have been left open in the area of genetically modified organisms (gmos). that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, although the draft has good ideas, i cannot agree with some of the points. for example, the report does not sufficiently reject genetically modified organisms, but on the contrary leaves a margin of interpretation.
in writing. ‒ the draft provides some very worthy approaches to increasing agricultural productivity. however, since it does not reveal sufficient rejection of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in the crucial points, but on the contrary leaves unreasonable room for interpretation, i cannot agree to this request in this form.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. if you listen to the speeches of the european union nomenklatura, that is to say the commissioners and the majority groups, you get the impression that these waves of migration are more politically motivated than they are a phenomenon. remember back when the whole arabian peninsula was in chaos, like it was with egypt and mubarak, like it was with tunisia and ben ali, like it was with libya and gaddafi, and then trying to fight assad in syria, and then the applause everywhere that an arab spring brought a much better time. when the arab spring did not come, but when all the problems came and the first big flows of migrants were on their way to europe, do you know who were the first to applaud loudly? the first to applaud loudly were the bosses of the german automobile industry: it was mercedes, it was audi, and it was bmw, who rejoiced that armies of cheap labour might come into the country and thus the profits of the big corporations would increase and increase. please, with your conscience, let us know what you are doing here and what a fatal policy you are pursuing. as for austria, i can only say that we have always had an open heart for people who sought protection and help. it was the case with the hungarians in 1956, the czechs in 1968, the bosnians in 1990 and the following years, but now that an intercontinental wave of migration is also heading towards austria, where people are crossing four or five safe third countries, including countries of the union, which are not all safe enough for them, where european countries, we reach a point where we have to say: stop, enough is enough! this right has even been considered within the european union at one time, by creating first-in-the-region reception points, by looking for safe zones in the region, but certainly not by continuing to look for strategies to bring more and more and more into europe, or else this ship europe will sink.
i welcome the commission's intention to provide financial incentives to help resolve the refugee crisis. the agreement with turkey cannot be a model for this. nor do i hope that we will listen to austrian proposals that try to convince us of an 'australian model' of dumping boats on the open sea, of internment camps for refugees on remote islands and of paying off responsibility by paying to countries with poor or no human rights standards. apart from the fact that this is illegal in the eu and contrary to the refugee convention, it is also not practical: for which european naval soldier is supposed to ensure that the inflatable boats do not reach a european island with which ship in which territorial waters? i expect european foreign ministers to take initiatives at european level aimed at a solution for all member states. but in the absence of such european initiatives, austria should at least implement the decisions of the commission and the eu parliament, just like all other member states. it would have helped us all.
i have to say, madam president, yes, we have a new miracle cure: the migration agenda is here, and it is supposed to be a new genius concept and recipe for dealing with the uncontrolled flood of migration into europe. frontex will once again play a major role. frontex, a poor paper tiger that has been allowed to act as a water rescue, was allowed to register 900 000 border crossings last year, of which it carried out a ridiculous 3 665 returns. ladies and gentlemen, that's a rate of 0.4 percent. the conclusion is therefore clear: big words no solution. europe - and i predict this - will be overrun by refugees again this year, but this is obviously what mr timmerman, who is so enthusiastic about the eu's mixed culture, wants. i do not want that, ladies and gentlemen, i see it as a real danger, a real threat to social peace in europe.
a short note. i had not noticed that you are from the same group as mrs kyenge. i do not normally accept blue cards from the same group, nor do i accept blue cards from other colleagues for information. i think that if you have questions to ask each other, you can do so within the group, but here in the plenary we have blue cards for asking questions to colleagues from the other groups. that's for clarification.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. uncoordinated approaches to migration have led to a major loss of confidence among european citizens. member states such as austria, germany and sweden have had to take in the most refugees per capita, while failing to find a solution to the refugee and migration crisis. the eu has also been involved in the negotiations on the agreement with turkey, which has so far proved to be unsuccessful in terms of implementation and could lead to a dangerous dependence on the turkish government. the eu should have started tackling the causes of displacement in a sustainable way, either materially or diplomatically, years ago. similarly, an extended frontex mandate could have prevented smuggling and counteracted the huge flows of migrants. the commission is only now making efforts to open negotiations with governments in africa and the middle east to conclude migration agreements. billions of dollars in financial aid are promised to the main countries concerned. a new fund will be endowed with 62 billion euro and will serve as a motivation for rapid and sustainable implementation. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to take a decision on the matter. however, it is to be expected that the cooperation sought will lead to the desired returns or reintegration of migrants from europe.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the adopted decision on the european agenda for new skills (2016/2504 ((rsp)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation in bangladesh is very worrying and the danger of civil war cannot be ruled out. two camps have been at odds for years, and this has led to the paralysis of democratic institutions, violence is constantly increasing, and the terrorists of isil are taking advantage of this situation. in such circumstances, the work of human rights activists is essential, but unfortunately it is systematically restricted. organisations like odhikar are intimidated, their existence is threatened, and often there is cruel violence, as on sunday when a christian was hacked to death. the same happened in april with an lgbt activist from the boys of bangladesh. it is still possible to stop this vicious cycle. europe can play an important role in this. the voice of europe is also being heard in bangladesh, so we are trying to prevent that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i follow the discussion with a laughing and a crying eye. the negotiations on the report were very good and very positive and very constructive. we can certainly achieve a lot in the civil and economic spheres with the eu space strategy. i believe that this is a sector in which it is possible to show almost perfectly how the public sector, the european union, can support the private sector. on my mobile phone, i have 10 or 15 applications that use space technology, from walking software to navigation software and so on. this is not just about companies that are involved in space technology themselves, but it is about small european start-ups that can use galileo and copernicus, that can use data that is provided by publicly funded, which private in this form could not. we must do this, we must invest massively, and european industry needs the support of the commission and of all of us. this is going in the right direction, and what i have heard, what is planned in the next few months, is also worth supporting and is going in the right direction. i am very concerned, however, at the remarks made by my colleague from the socialist group: if the whole point of satellite and surveillance is to deter and control refugees, then i think there has been a fundamental misunderstanding. this technology has its good and bad sides; we could use it to save lives - i would have expected a lot more word of mouth on this now - and we should.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have structural problems, we have high deficits, too little investment, too little innovation, too little growth and employment. the european fund for strategic investments, the so-called juncker fund, is one of our answers to this. and today we can say: the launch was a success! 249 projects in 26 member states with an investment volume of eur 100 billion have been launched. in 185 agreements, mainly in cooperation with the national promotional banks, 140 000 european smes were able to obtain financing. i therefore welcome the fact that the sme window is to be extended. but we're a long way from the finish line. we need big projects, more sustainability, more investment in the digital future, we need higher risk profiles. yes, we need an extension, we need an extension to include countries outside the european union which we are involved in, we need a strategic link between the parallel activities of the eit and the efsi, we need a complement of an efsi in the neighbouring countries and an african efsi, and we need an increase in the size of our projects and an acceleration. i therefore welcome the interim report. we're not there yet. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner katainen, you said today that the internal market part is certainly the most important in terms of stimulating investment. i agree with you on this. the member states of the european union must implement their structural reforms. this is the only way to create sustainable growth and jobs in europe. investors' confidence must be restored. i wonder where the added value of the efsi is actually located - and this has been raised several times today. i would like to give an example. just last week the first austrian project was implemented, namely an efsi project, a wind farm project in hof-seibersdorf, twelve wind turbines of three megawatts each, a project volume of eur 70 million, of which eur 40 million was covered by the efsi as a guarantee, 20% by the hausbank. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary in accordance with the conditions laid down in article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. this wind farm operator has been working with the eib for three years, financing the hausbank from the outset. so i don't see the added value. perhaps this added value should be more clearly presented. some other projects in other countries where additionality is not present have already been mentioned. a second impetus for not doing the core business, which is taking on the high-risk projects, is the 1:23 leverage. 249 efsi projects were supported, four billion euros were needed to raise 100 billion. it shows you don't go into high-risk projects here. perhaps it would be better to increase the capital of the eib in order to actually invest more in the economy and in development. the investment gap must be closed and the 16 billion euro from the european budget must be reinforced in horizon 2020 to support innovation in addition to investment. then investment in europe can start to pick up again.
madam president, mr vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to add one more criticism to the many that my colleagues have made of the implementation of the efsi: the striking lack of social investment. only 4% of all efsi investments go to the social sector, for example in health and education. that's the lowest percentage of any sector. i think that it is particularly in times of crisis that social innovation, green jobs and social entrepreneurship should be particularly encouraged. the efsi should also ensure that investments are in line with the europe 2020 objectives of poverty reduction, reduction of early school leaving, climate protection and promotion of research and development. mr president, we in the green group fully support the objective of increased investment, both private and public, to help us get out of the crisis and to create jobs. but the criticisms of the greens from the outset about the design and implementation of the efsi are justified when one looks at the figures in this interim balance sheet. not only have expectations been set far too high and the leverage effect announced far too low, but the geographical and sectoral distribution of funds is also unbalanced. mr vice-president, make sure that the efsi delivers added value for the citizens of europe! we can only detect it inadequately at the moment.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mr lambert how he actually sees the efsi in terms of its impact on employment. does the efsi actually create jobs, or only safeguard jobs, or does the efsi also lose jobs somewhere? is this an important component which should be taken into account in the ranking of projects?
i have to say, madam president, my question is in the direction of what is the difference between a bank loan and the efsi; what are the main differences? and i would like to ask my friend katainen if he sees a further development here, because he already said in his opening speech that a direct equity instrument actually works. what can we do to make it easy to provide venture capital, especially for spin-offs, for start-ups, for scale-ups? have we in europe actually thought about implementing accelerators, like there are already many in silicon valley, that we help our existing companies to conquer the world markets? i think that would be a very important procedure. the public-private partnership is, i believe, important in that, of course, small and mediumsized enterprises must first develop products or services that are then bought by consumers. but advertising, producing, usually requires capital and investment. if you tax that out beforehand, then of course there's nothing left for investment. it is therefore important that we also provide incentives from the tax policy point of view. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the projects it is planning to implement. so what is mr moscovici's incentive strategy here? how can we get mr moscovici to give incentives to those who create jobs, invest and ensure europe's prosperity?
in writing. my support for the juncker commission depended in particular on the investment campaign promised. we have been promised an additional investment of eur 315 billion. this is necessary to get europe's real economy back on track. the efsi must become the instrument it was designed to be: to cushion the impact of the crisis with investments in health, social infrastructure, energy and environmental projects, the digital domain and new innovations. however, the impression is that the actors are reducing their own use of funds. in germany, for example, a motorway is being built in the richest state of germany, baden-württemberg. it seems to me that projects are being carried out that would have been carried out anyway. it must be clear to everyone that this is not enough to deal with the crisis. additional investment must be created, the eib must not reduce its resources, the actors eib, efsi and european commission must enable more effective and bold investment. i am convinced that the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty. greater flexibility for crisis-hit member states in their budgets must be guaranteed within the eu fiscal rules. the golden rule for public investment must be implemented at european level. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs.
in writing. i agree with that resolution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the committee of inquiry is to have 65 members and be responsible for examining alleged breaches of union law and maladministration in its application in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ if i had had the opportunity to take part in this vote, i would have voted in favour of setting up the committee in the interests of full transparency and accountability to the taxpayer.
in writing. this report concerns an agreement between the eu and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver for palauans in the european union. the visa exemption is a national task and is better dealt with in the council or the schengen group than at pan-european level. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the european union and the island state of palau is discussed here. there are no credible arguments for this agreement at the moment. the european union is trying to take over powers here. i cannot therefore support this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement because i consider the privileging of palau residents to be completely unnecessary and a wrong signal in the current global migration situation.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for the nationals of palau (an island state in the pacific ocean) when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. this is argued to have a positive impact on tourism and a 'high' trade potential. apart from the fact that trade and investment are currently very restricted, it is hard to see any other reason why such an exemption should be voted on. that is why i voted against.
in writing. this report concerns an agreement between the eu and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver for tongan citizens in the european union. the visa exemption is a national task and is better dealt with in the council or the schengen group than at pan-european level. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ this concerns the exemption from the visa requirement for short stays between the eu and the kingdom of tonga. the european union has little trade with the kingdom of tonga. the report itself reveals that the tourism sector is underdeveloped. so i see no need to act here.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the report reveals that the tourism sector is underdeveloped, that the european union plays little role in trade relations and that the economy is more state-organized. the argument is that this could have a positive impact on investment and tourism. in my opinion, this argument is not a sufficient reason to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of tonga (south pacific kingdom) when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. the report itself reveals that the tourism sector is underdeveloped, the european union plays little role in trade relations and the economy is more state-organized. the argument is that there are 'possible' positive effects on investment and tourism. i do not think that is a sufficient reason to support the report.
in writing. this report concerns an agreement between the eu and the republic of colombia on the exemption from the visa requirement for short stays by colombian citizens in the european union. the visa exemption is a national task and is better dealt with in the council or the schengen group than at pan-european level. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ this concerns the exemption from the visa requirement for short stays between the eu and colombia. colombia is an important economic partner, but the government is unstable. i therefore see no reason to change the visa arrangements.
in writing. ‒ i also voted against this report. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of colombia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. i cannot support this report because of the instability of the government.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa exemption for citizens of the european union and of colombia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. although colombia is definitely an important economic partner, it has no stable government and internal conflicts. there are also still serious concerns about human rights. i therefore cannot understand the need to lift the visa regime across national borders.
in writing. this report concerns an expansion of trade in information technology goods. this convention covers components and machinery for the manufacture of it goods as well as medical devices. this will have positive effects and lead to price reductions in the medical products sector. at the same time, innovation and the competitiveness of the austrian economy are being promoted. i therefore support the motion.
in writing. ‒ this agreement updates the scope of coverage for various medical devices. this should bring down prices for the consumer. in addition, this agreement can strengthen the competitiveness of the austrian location. i therefore cannot but agree with this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is an update of the scope of the report. it should be noted above all that this report also promises benefits for the consumer. the price of it products will fall for the consumer. prices for medical products are also being reduced.
in writing. ‒ the extension of the ita convention is about updating the scope. this is necessary because, although the it sector has evolved considerably since 1997, the scope of the ita has not. on the positive side, both the price of consumer it products is falling and the purchase and production of important medical devices, such as magnetic resonance imaging devices, is becoming cheaper. another positive aspect is that for sensitive it goods, longer phased duty drawback systems have been negotiated.
in writing. α-pvp is a potent psychostimulant and is mainly imported from china into the eu pharmaceutical market. so far, 115 deaths and 191 acute poisonings have been recorded in eight member states where the substance has been detected. there is currently no comprehensive information or studies on the health risks. my approval of this report is an acceptance of the commission's proposal on the prevention of dissemination, control and criminal sanctions.
in writing. ‒ α-pvp is a powerful psychostimulant imported from china to the eu drug market. this has already caused 115 deaths and 191 poisonings. the aim of this proposal is to increase the control measures for α-pvc. that is why i am in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this report because α-pvp is a potent psychostimulant and is becoming an increasing problem in our society. it is therefore imperative that the monitoring of this substance, its use and its introduction be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ α-pvp is a potent psychostimulant that has already been detected in some member states. it is mainly imported from china to the eu drug market and then distributed throughout europe. the draft calls on the council to inform and consult parliament if it deviates from the text of the council decision on control measures for the new psychoactive substance α-pvp, which was approved by parliament. i think that is very important.
in writing. this report deals with the ratification of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns). the rapporteur uses the interim report to draw the attention of the council and the commission to the continuing overlap between the uhrl and the hns convention and considers that parliament should not give its consent until the unity, integrity and effectiveness of union law and the fundamental principle of the limited individual mandate of the eu are guaranteed. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the ratification of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention. this is the responsibility and compensation for damage caused by the transport of harmful and dangerous substances by sea. the rapporteur makes recommendations on the overlap between the uhrl and the hns convention. i therefore cannot but agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ in general, the subject is the ratification of the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea. the interim report makes it clear that it is not appropriate for parliament to give its consent until the unity, integrity and effectiveness of union law and the fundamental principle of the limited individual power of the eu are guaranteed. the report also indicates that the council and the commission need to make recommendations on the remaining overlaps between the uhrl and the hns convention in order to achieve a positive outcome.
in writing. this report deals with the ratification of the 2010 protocol to the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns). the rapporteur uses the interim report to draw the attention of the council and the commission to the continuing overlap between the uhrl and the hns convention and considers that parliament should not give its consent until the unity, integrity and effectiveness of union law and the fundamental principle of the limited individual mandate of the eu are guaranteed. i agree with that report.
in writing. ‒ the issue is the ratification of the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea. the rapporteur shows the overlaps which still exist between the uhrl and the hns convention in order to achieve a positive result. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with compensation for damage caused by the carriage of harmful and dangerous substances by sea. the report also indicates that the council and the commission need to make recommendations on the remaining overlaps between the uhrl and the hns convention. i have voted in favour of this report because it will produce a positive result.
in writing. ‒ in general, the subject is the ratification of the international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea. the interim report makes it clear that it is not appropriate for parliament to give its consent until the unity, integrity and effectiveness of union law and the fundamental principle of the limited individual power of the eu are guaranteed. the report also indicates that the council and the commission need to make recommendations on the remaining overlaps between the uhrl and the hns convention in order to achieve a positive outcome.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the framework agreement between the european union and the philippines on partnership and cooperation in the light of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. it is an adaptation of the framework agreement, which is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ by this framework agreement, parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the protocol and instructs its president to forward parliament's position to the council, the commission, the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of the philippines. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of this report and i am speaking in favour of the framework agreement between the european union and the republic of the philippines.
in writing. ‒ parliament hereby gives its assent to the conclusion of the protocol and instructs its president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission, and to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of the philippines, on the occasion of the accession of the republic of croatia. i could agree to this report without any reservations.
in writing. this report concerns the approval of the framework agreement between the european union and the philippines on partnership and enhanced cooperation. it is an adaptation of the framework agreement, which is why i am voting for the report.
in writing. ‒ this framework agreement gives parliament its consent to the conclusion of the protocol. parliament also instructs the president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission, and to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of the philippines. this framework agreement is reasonable and therefore worthy of support.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of this report. parliament hereby gives its assent to the conclusion of the protocol and instructs its president to forward its position to the council and the commission, and to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of the philippines.
in writing. ‒ parliament hereby gives its consent to the conclusion of the protocol and instructs its president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission, and to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of the philippines. i could agree to this report without any reservations.
in writing. this motion for a resolution is a review of the council's draft framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and the philippines. it clearly shows progress, but also calls for improvements in certain areas, such as the legal protection of filipino seafarers and the fight against terrorism. i am voting in favour of this resolution because of the balanced reporting.
in writing. ‒ this framework agreement concerns the strengthening of cooperation with the philippines. it is also a signatory to eight of the nine human rights conventions and is a major trading partner in the region. i therefore cannot but agree with this framework agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the framework for closer cooperation with the philippines. the philippines also provides a model for other countries in the region in terms of international and national human rights law.
in writing. ‒ this resolution sets the framework for enhanced cooperation with the philippines. the philippines is a model for other countries in the region in terms of international and national human rights law. the philippines is also a major trading partner in the region. i can therefore agree with the report, because it addresses critical points quite openly.
in writing. i shall abstain on this report. it clearly fails to indicate ways in which future financial assistance to tunisia to deal with the migration crisis should be handled, and does not attach conditions such as willingness to cooperate to the financial assistance.
in writing. ‒ this is about supporting north african countries through microfinance. in principle, i see these microfinancing aids positively, as they could solve the migration problem locally. however, since tunisia refuses to sign a readmission agreement, i have taken a neutral position.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because i am in favour of supporting the north african countries to better tackle the migration problem on the ground. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the tunisian authorities have not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the aid is used to support the development of the tunisian economy.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of supporting the countries of north africa in order to better tackle the migration problem locally. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the tunisian authorities have not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the aid is used to support the development of the tunisian economy. that's why i'm abstaining from my vote.
in writing. ‒ the proposals in this report on the prevention of unfair tax practices aim, in part, at harmonising tax law in the european union. while tax avoidance is a problem that needs to be tackled by a harmonised approach, measures that severely restrict tax sovereignty are overreaching on such a sensitive issue. in addition, in the international context, it must be borne in mind that measures going beyond the oecd beps initiative are not appropriate and do more harm than good to europe as a location for investment. i therefore abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this is a resolution on a commission initiative to combat tax evasion. this report is going in the right direction, but there are some points with which i cannot agree. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, although it does offer some good approaches to avoid unfair tax practices, it also shows a very inflexible and excessive harmonisation of tax law at european level.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some good suggestions aimed at avoiding unfair tax practices. however, since the tendency towards inflexible and excessive harmonisation of tax law at eu level seems to me too pronounced, i shall abstain.
in writing. although the resolution repeatedly stresses the transatlantic partnership, the report is highly critical of cia practices in europe and condemns the torture prisons run by the cia. the rapporteur also calls for more rapid action on reconnaissance missions. i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the involvement of several eu member states, their authorities, officials and agents of their security and intelligence services in the torture of prisoners is the central theme of this report. the torture of prisoners is to be strongly condemned and full information at european level is desirable.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of this report because it clearly shows the involvement of several eu member states and their authorities and officials, as well as agents of their security and intelligence services, in the cia's programme of secret detention and extraordinary rendition.
in writing. ‒ the report clearly shows the involvement of several eu member states and their authorities and officials, as well as agents of their security and intelligence services, in the cia's programme of secret detention and extraordinary rendition. the fact that torture did not provide information that could not have been obtained by conventional non-violent interrogation methods is also openly discussed. i can therefore only support the continuation of the call for full information at european level.
in writing. ‒ this report contains sensible approaches to strengthening the autonomy of european space policy. in the european economic area, there is a need to further promote the competitiveness of space policy, as many industries are directly and indirectly linked to it. i therefore agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ the draft refers to a dual research strategy in military and civilian terms. however, the focus is clearly on military research. in principle, an independent space programme is desirable, but military research in cooperation with nato is questionable. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because the draft calls for a dual research strategy, one military and one civilian. unfortunately, this is not the case with the sensible approaches to strengthening the autonomy of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the draft calls for a dual research strategy, one military and one civil. the very good idea of an independent space strategy is here transformed into a joint rearmament plan with nato. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ this resolution calls for the space industry to be given greater importance in commission programmes. the european space industry is one of the most competitive in the world and this leading position must be developed and defended. as more and more actors, especially local actors, become active in this field, it is necessary to make data transfer more coherent and to better tailor internal market policy to almost exclusively cross-border space projects. i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ if i had had the opportunity to take part in this vote, i would probably have voted in favour of this report. in the interests of our high-technology companies, especially in austria, european space should continue to be seen as a market with considerable growth potential.
in writing. ‒ the draft calls for a dual research strategy, one military and one civil. the very good idea of an independent space strategy is here transformed into a joint rearmament plan with nato. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. it clearly exposes the government's human rights violations, points to socialist mismanagement and patronage as the reasons for the country's economic crisis, and condemns the suppression of the opposition and the erosion of the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the human rights violations and the unstable economic situation in venezuela are discussed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the report calls for a solution to these key points. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it deals with human rights violations in venezuela and the economic situation, which is totally unstable due to the socialist mismanagement. the resolution also calls for a solution to the crisis to be found through dialogue with all levels of government, the democratic opposition and society.
in writing. ‒ the report rightly denounces the human rights violations in venezuela and the totally unstable economic situation caused by the socialist mismanagement. another important point is the suppression of the opposition and the undermining of the rule of law. it calls for a solution to the crisis through dialogue with all levels of government, the democratic opposition and society. i can only agree with that very accurate analysis.
in writing. this resolution condemns the commission and shows that fundamental rights acts and the ecj judgment have not been respected, both of which clearly provide for the establishment of scientific risk criteria for endocrine disruptors. so far, only social and economic parameters are considered, as in the impact assessment to be carried out now, without scientific criteria for disruptors being defined beforehand. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution, because risk assessments need a scientific basis and cannot be based on economic considerations.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution deals with endocrine disruptors. these are hormone-activated substances that can damage the hormonal system. the report condemns the commission's failings. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am in favour of establishing certain criteria for endocrine disruptors (hormonally active substances) which can cause lasting damage to health by altering the hormonal system.
in writing. ‒ endocrine disruptors are hormonally active substances that can cause lasting damage to health by altering the hormonal system. the report strongly condemns the commission for failing to meet its obligations and for conducting an impact assessment without ever establishing scientific criteria for disruptors, but only in the course of this assessment.
in writing. i shall vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. the rapporteur rightly points out that the commission is constantly releasing new combinations of genetically modified maize, which is beyond its powers. the commission also proposes to repeal the decisions already taken to authorise different combinations of already authorised genetically modified maize varieties.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution deals with the combinations of maize varieties that have already been genetically modified. it is rightly explained here that the commission has exceeded its powers. it also calls for the repeal of decisions already taken to authorise different combinations of already authorised genetically modified maize varieties. i can only agree with that very accurate analysis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because the rapporteur rightly points out that the commission is always releasing new combinations of genetically modified maize, thereby exceeding its powers. it also calls for the repeal of decisions already taken to authorise different combinations of already authorised gm maize varieties.
in writing. ‒ i can agree with the motion for a resolution. on the one hand, the rapporteur rightly states that the commission is constantly releasing new combinations of genetically modified maize, and that this is going beyond its powers. the commission also proposes to repeal the decisions already taken to authorise different combinations of already authorised genetically modified maize varieties.
in writing. i shall vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. the rapporteur considers that the draft does not meet the objective of health and environmental protection required by directive 2001/18/ec and that the implementing powers provided for in that directive have therefore been exceeded. it is therefore appropriate to withdraw the implementing acts concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified carnations.
in writing. ‒ this draft calls on the commission to withdraw its implementing decision on the placing on the market of a genetically modified clove. i can therefore give a positive assessment of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft because it calls on the commission to withdraw the implementing decision on the placing on the market of a genetically modified clove.
in writing. ‒ this draft calls on the commission to withdraw its implementing decision on the placing on the market of a genetically modified clove. the resolution must therefore be approved, since it prevents the distribution of genetically modified carnations in europe.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. do you know how complicated it is that an austrian citizen - i could of course also take someone from any other country - who spends his life in spain, for example, also receives his pension, so his pension is paid there? he has to present a so-called life certificate, which means he has to prove that he is still alive. this life certificate, it needs to be translated, and it needs to be certified. it takes time, and it takes money. and that is what we want to change in this united europe. the aim is simply to make everyday life in europe easier. this includes a common eu charter in the medium and long term. obviously, we're not ready for that. the result that we have now is much more modest than our rapporteur, mrs mady delvaux, and the shadow rapporteurs in the european parliament had originally intended. but this is an important stage. the report will now bring considerable benefits to the citizens of the european union. finally, they no longer need to provide an apostille for certain documents, such as the many birth and death certificates mentioned at the outset. many young adults also go abroad to study. one of our priorities has been and is to make it easier for young adults to take this step and to achieve automatic recognition of school certificates and diplomas. we haven't gotten there yet, but let's take this momentum. that's a first step. the aim is to further contribute to european integration.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this reform is undoubtedly a very technical reform. the report is the fourth reform of the court of justice and at the same time a follow-up to the marinho e pinto report, in which we increased the number of judges from 28 to 56, so that each member state could now nominate two judges. the increase was conditional on the dissolution of the civil service tribunal and the referral of those cases back to the european court of justice. the amendments are now clearer and the provisions on specialised courts are no longer required, because there is no specialised court at present. the report also includes a change in the court's procedural organisation and internal organisation, which is to be welcomed. furthermore - and this is a particular concern to me - the report by mrs delvaux once again makes it clear that a balance between men and women must also be achieved in the appointment of judges. i would remind you that we made this a precondition when we voted on the marinho e pinto report and we called on the council to refer to this balance when making the nominations. i'll do it again with this. at national level, this is already working, the judicial posts are more or less very well balanced. i hope that will be the case at european level as well.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not courts - we all know this - are the heart of the judiciary in parliamentary democracies and are therefore always a sensitive matter, especially when it comes to their composition and when politics are involved. we are also clear that the people of law have a right to speedy proceedings and speedy decisions. the workload of this court - i know this from many personal reports - has increased considerably over the last ten years. in that respect, there is no objection to the replacement or increase of the number of such judges. it is the procedure that bothers me here, because it is a typical procedure of this european union. twelve additional judges were requested by the court. what do you do now? 28 are ordered. i wonder what happens to the 16 judges who weren't even needed. they're going to walk for the next few years, and who's going to pay for all this? these things always end up - unfortunately - in the background when it comes to these kinds of occupations. and what is even more important to me is the expertise of these judges. they should not be politically occupied, which is unfortunately the case for the most part.
i have to say, madam president, the terrible terrorist attacks of recent times have also affected us because they have made our helplessness evident. they caught us by surprise because we were not able to make the right use of the information we had. yeah, well, at least the information was there. it is therefore right that we learn from this to prevent such things from happening in the future. i welcome the comments of the council and the commission, but also of national parliaments, such as the german bundestag, which is now dealing with this subject at the same time. the aim is not to create new intelligence services and investigative bodies but to network existing databases and make them interoperable. there is nothing wrong with that, quite the opposite. one might criticize the fact that this is happening now. but one should not expect a) that this will solve all problems, as if it were a miracle machine, and b) one should also see the problems involved. i see three main problems. it can lead to entirely new problems if the application is not in line with the case law of the ecj, is not in accordance with fundamental rights and does not comply with the principles of data protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. secondly, we should also consider whether there are already instruments that are not being used for whatever reason, such as the decision of the minister of justice in 2005 on the mandatory exchange of information in the case of terrorist offences. so before we do anything new, we need to take an inventory of the tools that we already have, and we need to ask ourselves why they're not being used, because there must be reasons for that, and that should be reflected in our analysis. i also think that it is not enough to rely on the simple networking of databases to solve the problem. that's a blueyed one. it is not just machine intelligence that is needed, but also human intelligence, human intelligence, and i think one of the most important things is that joint investigation teams, such as those that exist within europol, should be developed to solve the problem proactively.
madam president, i am glad to hear that the commission decided to stress the importance of data sharing. in fact this should not be an option but a must. however, what is the reality today? a number of databases full of holes. if there is a lesson to be learned from the recent terror attacks then it is the following: data sharing by the police and all other security services must improve. national egos are creating potholes on the information highway and this is not acceptable. we do not need to go far back in time, since recently a law was passed that did not include systematic mandatory data sharing: that was the pnr file making its way through this house. there is a massive gap between planning and execution, between ambitions and reality. the system can only succeed if individual member states deliver information. member states, however, are still not obliged to do so. there is no need for new instruments. it would only challenge our freedom without protecting us. mandatory data sharing is the only possible way forward.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. take her and judge her! you must pay the price, whatever the price may be. with these words, erdoğan accompanied the lifting of the immunity of 138 oppositionists on may 20. but, commissioner hahn, instead of reacting appropriately, we are also making a deal with this gentleman on refugees and ignoring the fact that turkey is currently dismantling democracy. we promise billions of euros, visa facilitation, new negotiating chapters, while erdoğan and co. blackmail us around the nose. and all this, obviously, in order to save the head of mrs merkel, who with her insane general invitation to refugees from all over the world will lead not only germany, but all of europe into disaster. and mr erdoğan, in a brazen addition, is now threatening the union with new waves of refugees and germany with the mobilisation of the turks living there, if it does not behave as the sultan of the bosporus wants it to, and for example does not remain silent about the genocide of the armenians. i can only say, commissioner, and i ask you to do the same: europe, wake up!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. parliamentary immunity is a precious legal asset that exists in every democracy. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the events of these days are extremely worrying because they have the character of collective punishment. among those punished are well-known faces such as selahattin demirtaş, who was a guest in the s&d group just a few weeks ago, and feleknas uca, who has been a member of our house for ten years. what's happening is absurd. both colleagues are above suspicion. many of us still remember conversations with the two of them, in which they urged a peaceful solution to the kurdish question.
mr president, 7 june is a symbolic date. just a year ago yesterday hdp won its great electoral victory with 13% entering the grand national assembly of turkey, and while kurds voted for them, so also did many other progressive liberals, others who want a european turkey and who want a political solution to the conflict between ankara and the kurds. so it is no coincidence that erdoğan yesterday signed a law that allows criminal charges to be brought against those 138 mps whose immunity has been lifted in such an undemocratic way. it looks like revenge by erdoğan to correct the electoral outcome of last year, and strikes a heavy blow against the rule of law and democracy in turkey. so i appeal to the commission to make sure that turkey will not be allowed a shortcut for visa liberalisation and that this recent blow against the rule of law makes it very clear that you must not rely on turkey, we cannot rely on turkey, to solve the problems that we have with refugees and the solidarity crisis we have.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. although i am in favour of the eu-turkey refugee agreement on the basis of my convictions, i find the developments shocking, unacceptable and the outcry from this house necessary and right. if the parliamentary immunity of 138 members, especially of democratically elected representatives of the opposition, is lifted at one stroke, if members of a political minority are thus excluded from parliament and then prevented from exercising their mandate, if the opposition forces are thus silenced for their political statements, then this is incompatible with our democratic values, with our principles of the rule of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the decision of the turkish national assembly to waive the immunity of 138 members of parliament raises concerns about the rule of law in turkey and is strongly criticised by us. this decision is not only directed against the turkish opposition, as the example of the 50 mps of the kurdish opposition party hdp, who are now facing charges of supporting terrorism, shows, but is accompanied by a series of measures which increasingly portray turkish democracy and the erdoğan regime in an authoritarian light. the european parliament must now send a clear signal to stop such undemocratic tendencies from taking root. i think it is in the eu's interest to maintain appropriate diplomatic and partnership relations with turkey, given its geographical location and geopolitical importance, and given turkey's particular role in the refugee crisis. but visa liberalisation and possible eu membership must allow turkey to be reminded that human rights and freedom of the press and media must be respected and that there must be no departure from the principle of the democratic rule of law.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr. minister, i'd like to ask you the following: how does the council even imagine that the eu can defend itself against unfair trade practices and respond appropriately to dumped goods if we do not have effective protection against unfair competition, if there are no fair rules for all and if european jobs are not effectively protected because our european trade defence instruments are not up to date? not much has happened since 2013, but we're in 2016. it's time to act now. it is clear that there is an absolute need to change, modernise and clarify european trade defence instruments and to ensure that in the future unfair competition can be dealt with more quickly. we urgently need effective instruments to combat the abuse of subsidies. i'm asking you to end the blockade. it's entirely up to you. you have to take responsibility, that's what we expect from you.
the debate is closed. the motion for a resolution to be tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the vote will take place in july. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on rules for an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union, by pavel svoboda and heidi hautala, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-000079/2016 - b8-0705/2016) (2016/2610(rsp)).
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 7 june 2016.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on eu economic diplomacy (2016/2733 ((rsp)).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on the one hand, i am pleased that this request, led by antonio tajani and all the chairmen of the intergroup on smes, can be made today. we already discussed this on 13 october 2015 in the sme intergroup, and i am also pleased that austria is taking a leading role in this through the external trade organisation that we have had for years and which is an essential part of the export offensive and the successful international activity of smes in austria. we have the situation -- you've got it right -- that 80-90 percent of economic growth in the next 10 to 15 years will be outside europe, a third of it in china. although 25% of european smes export to the eu, only 13% of all european smes are currently active on markets outside the union. the investment is largely outside europe because of globalisation. we want to discuss the efsi to develop our neighbouring countries, an efsi for africa. smes need guidance, support, support, door openers, because otherwise they cannot afford it. we therefore ask you to join the business-sme-european external action service cooperation.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the commission has already done so. the railway supply industry is undoubtedly a strategically important industry in europe. however, it is an industry that is business to business and therefore not so visible to the public. the rapporteur is all the more to be thanked for this oral answer to the question and for this motion for a resolution, because this industry needs more publicity. european companies are still the world's leading companies with 46% of the world market and 47 billion euros in sales, but china is very much on europe's heels here. a chinese company, crcc, now has a turnover of almost 30 billion euros, which means that more than half of europe's turnover goes to one company in china alone. china, of course, also has financing opportunities for such large companies, which europe does not have. this is why europe needs to focus, that shift to rail, a very good initiative that is being fed by horizon 2020 funds, is implemented as quickly as possible, that the connecting europe facility is being used, that the efsi fund is being used more and more. we need more competitiveness and support for the european railway supply industry.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i apologize for the confusion. it is amazing that we deal with the events in cambodia with a certain frequency and that this is always in the context of human rights. it is unfortunate that we have to do this over and over again. cambodia has a tragic history: there was a genocide of the khmer rouge that went down in history, and in that context it's actually amazing that this country has developed positively, that there has been positive economic development, there have been positive political developments. the prospects would be good and this country could actually develop further if it were to take the path of the rule of law and democracy. the unfortunate fact is that cambodia is in danger of falling back into corruption and arbitrariness. the country has overcome a constitutional crisis, and an electoral commission has been agreed upon. the european union supports this electoral commission. but the closer the election gets, the more nervous the government gets. the opposition is systematically eliminated, the ngo space is restricted, the trade unions are put on the back burner, and a climate of fear has spread throughout the country. this resolution is a strong appeal to the cambodian government to abandon this path and release all those who have been arrested, and i am very glad that we are also happy to remind the cambodian government that the considerable resources that europe is providing also depend on it and on it making further progress in this democratic development.
in writing. ‒ this report proposes to simplify the recognition of certain public documents within the eu. in order to avoid administrative complications, it is planned to simplify the recognition of certified copies and sworn translations. the council's position is not acceptable because of the high risk of abuse in such sensitive areas and because i believe that the existing administrative procedures and procedures are quite reasonable in such cases.
in writing. ‒ here, the eu is trying to take on more powers under the pretext of free movement. however, i see a certain danger of abuse in this point. i therefore cannot but agree with the amendment tabled by the enf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to simplify the acceptance of certain public documents within the european union under the pretext of free movement.
in writing. ‒ the report seeks to simplify the acceptance of certain public documents within the eu under the pretext of free movement. the commission has also proposed to extend the scope of the directive to cover the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment against pollution, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of pesticides, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of pesticides, and the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of pesticides. i therefore support the enf amendment which would put an end to this specter.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the need to reform the court of justice and to increase the number of judges to cope with the 65% increase in workload over the last few years. each member state is allowed to nominate two judges. in return, the civil service tribunal will be dissolved and pending cases will be referred to the court of justice. this will allow the number of judges to increase from 28 to 56 and the specialised court's jurisdiction to be transferred to the court of justice, and cases pending from previous years to be dealt with in order to cope with the increased workload. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this is about reforming the court of justice. the next item is the increase in the number of judges from 28 to 56. this increase is a waste of money if the specialised court is not closed. since this is a matter of dissolving the specialised court, i can only agree.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is in the context of the debate on the reform of the court of justice. the report essentially concerns the increase in the number of judges from 28 to 56; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the court of justice is able to exercise its powers. the report deals with the transfer of jurisdiction by the specialised court and its dissolution, so i can agree to that in these circumstances.
in writing. ‒ this report is in the context of the debate on the reform of the court of justice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal basis for the court of justice is established. but since the present report deals with the transfer of jurisdiction from the specialised court and its dissolution, i can agree to that in these circumstances.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for the establishment of common rules for administrative procedures at the level of the highest institutions, i.e. union bodies, offices and agencies, in order to improve legal certainty, close loopholes in the legal system and contribute to ensuring the rule of law. the commission is invited to address these issues in a timely manner. i agree with the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution recognises the railway supply industry and its contribution to european competitiveness. the commission will also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's climate change strategy. in this regard, the commission is invited to support the objectives of a sustainable and energy-efficient shift of passenger and freight transport to rail, as set out in the 2011 transport white paper, through concrete policy measures and targeted investments. i therefore support this motion for a resolution.
i have to say, madam president, six million dead in the last year, millions of displaced people, that shows that the fight against regional terrorism, but also against islamic terrorism in this region, the fight against boko haram and al-shabaab, has obviously failed. so the axis of islamic terror extends from somalia to -- obviously -- west africa. our words of regret today, while full of anointing, are comparatively ineffective and therefore hypocritical. europe will have to wake up from the big blah blah and we have to take note that it will obviously continue to be this way until eventually resources and raw materials like coltan deposits are in the wrong hands and then the industry in europe will wake up and then we will have to shout and finally take action. so i think we're talking a lot today, but we're obviously not ready to take any clear steps. i predict that the industry will tell us when we need to act, also in the interests of our mobile phone production.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express once again, as we did at the beginning of this sitting today, my shock, my grief and my anger at the terrorist attack in orlando a little over a week ago, in which 49 people were brutally killed, at least as many were injured and hundreds of relatives, friends and girlfriends are grieving and do not understand how this could have happened. but also about mrs jo cox, who worked in this house before she became a member, and was one of us, so to speak, and who was also brutally murdered, and about the police couple in france recently - all those whom we remembered at the beginning of this sitting today. how can people develop such hatred and go out and shoot or stab people who simply have different values, who stand for diversity, for equal rights - whether they are immigrants or immigrants, regardless of their skin color, regardless of their sexual orientation - people who simply enjoy their lives, their love, like in the gay bar in orlando? this was a clearly homophobic attack in the name of isis. today's issue is how we can prevent people who are radicalizing from becoming violent extremists. this requires education, employment, inclusion, because very often the causes lie in the fact that there is no meaning in life, no work, no job, no hope. giving people back opportunities and joy in life, feeling like i can do something with my life, that's necessary. and the second - and this has been discussed in some parts - is the work in youth centres, in schools, but also in prisons, where young people often come because of minor or major crimes and there is a risk that they will be radicalized and then also become violent. i want to briefly address two examples that do just that. the european citizen award 2015 was won by the austrian social cohesion network, whose staff go to prisons and work successfully to de-radicalise young people, young people and older people. and another example, very recent: yesterday, here in molenbeek, there was a meeting between a martial arts centre from vienna with martial arts champions and people from molenbeek. they were invited to show what they do in the center in vienna. the fight sports, which very often attract young people who want to exert themselves, so to speak, are creating something new in this environment. we must encourage this, these are positive examples. if they work together and say "isis is not in the koran", if muslims raise their hands against is, even in sports, we should continue to promote this, and then hopefully there will be fewer of these attacks.
i have to say, madam president, two weeks ago, i was in the sinjar mountains in northern iraq, where the yazidis have been resisting the onslaught of isis terrorists for months. in the midst of this devastated landscape, a soldier showed us on his mobile phone documents of foreign fighters who had been shot, including id, social security id and driver's license of a compatriot, an austrian, a 33-year-old crane driver. since then, i've been left wondering what drove this man. obviously he made the decision voluntarily, there must have been some event that led him to it. someone must have recruited him and shipped him to syria, and it's almost certain that by that time he must have already committed a series of crimes and atrocities. this is not an isolated case, it is a mass phenomenon. only if we can answer these questions can we put an end to this phenomenon. it is a complex problem because the terrorists will stop at nothing and there will be setbacks that will test our patience. i welcome the commission's initiative because it does not stop at symbolic acts but seeks to solve the problems at their root. a lasting solution to the problem requires foresight, discrimination and a combination of military, intelligence, police, social and educational measures. the commission's strategy is based on proven tools, ran is mentioned, and the internet observatory we have set up at europol. this is very important, but we also need to pay particular attention to international cooperation across borders, which is lacking. we should also not forget that the recruitment of foreign fighters is particularly easy to do where the living conditions are poor. youth unemployment, poor housing conditions are incubators for the foreign fighters.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is clear that the speaker has a lot to say about the outcome in rome and in italy, but the things we have to say today are equally important, namely the two reports which are here to show the state of play in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency. this implementation level is quite different. in the field of renewables, while member states are on track to meet the 2020 targets with a share of 15,3% in 2014 , the implementation of energy efficiency is less good. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to set up a national energy efficiency strategy to support the implementation of the 2020 targets. i do not know whether it was appropriate in this context to reduce the flexibility provided for in article 7. member states used to be free to choose their energy efficiency mix, but this is no longer possible to this extent. the commission is proposing to quantify exceptions, phasing-in and early action measures should no longer be valid. i also think that the 40% efficiency target is unrealistic. it is better to take this amendment and then provide for the corridor. we should not set unrealistic goals. the fact that member states are still not required to have the same means and the same data collection procedures is also a weak point. another point: i also think that it is unrealistic to make it compulsory to renovate all public buildings, not just government buildings. we should be realistic, energy efficiency is important, but so is realism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. (the microphone is turned on too late.) .... unfortunate constraints that make it difficult to do business, buildings offer, alongside road transport, the crucial opportunity for further energy savings and for achieving efficiency targets. so we should encourage architects and builders to build traditional, regional and climate-appropriate building concepts and materials instead of glass energy-destroying machines. instead of regulatory rage - i am thinking here of fear of vacuum cleaners - incentives should be used instead of prohibitions. for centuries, humans have learned to live with the adversity of nature and optimize energy use. so the knowledge must be put to use. i think we should incorporate some modern elements into this. for example, facade greening is a very useful addition, as you see in america. and by the way, ladies and gentlemen, the institutions of the union should also set a good example in this respect. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for the question, which i understood acoustically, of course, but not completely in terms of content. i said that it should not be about the small, detail-loving things in europe, but about the big things. and if we read the reports, we know that there are big components here -- traffic, but also buildings -- that to renovate, to equip them better would bring in a lot more. and i think that industry in particular has benefited from standardizing standards here.
in writing. ‒ the vote was on the appointment of the members of the political groups to the new committee of inquiry into alleged breaches of union law and misapplication of union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion.
in writing. in this report, the rapporteur links the migration crisis with the need to strengthen countries to tackle the causes of displacement. this is welcome, but it should be linked to clear and unequivocal commitments to take back migrants. as this is not the case in the present report, i do not agree with it.
in writing. ‒ the issue is the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and lebanon, on the other. the enp provides for the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and bodies to the enp partner countries. the council must obtain the consent of the european parliament. on the other hand, this association agreement was not linked to an immigrant/asylum readmission agreement. but i think that would be essential. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ despite the correct idea in principle of addressing the causes of displacement locally, there is no clear commitment to take back migrants. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation is thematically related to the framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. it is also about tackling the causes of displacement on the ground, an endeavour which i fully support. but if, as in this case, the eu makes concessions without being bound by obligations to take back illegal migrants, then i consider this to be irresponsible.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the rapporteur links the migration crisis with the need to strengthen countries to tackle the causes of displacement. this is a sensible idea in principle. however, this assistance should be linked to clear and unequivocal commitments to take back migrants. i do not agree with the report because it does not do so.
in writing. ‒ the issue is the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and lebanon, on the other. the enp provides for the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and bodies to the enp partner countries. the council must obtain the consent of the european parliament. on the other hand, this association agreement was not linked to an immigrant/asylum readmission agreement. but i think that would be essential. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ a sensible idea in principle to strengthen countries - but aid must be linked to clear and unambiguous commitments to take back migrants, which is not the case here.
in writing. ‒ the thematic focus is on the framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. in particular, the recommendation deals with the enlargement to include the member states which joined in 2004. it is also about tackling the causes of displacement on the ground, an endeavour which i fully support. but if, as in this case, the eu makes concessions without being bound by obligations to take back illegal migrants, then i consider this to be irresponsible.
in writing. ‒ this report is purely technical in nature and concerns an additional protocol between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and lebanon, of the other part, on the occasion of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and the republic of romania to the european union. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this vote is purely formal. it is due to the inclusion of bulgaria and romania in the protocol following their accession to the eu. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this is a purely technical agreement, and bulgaria and romania are to be included in the protocol after their accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ a recommendation on the framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
in writing. ‒ this agreement represents a significant step forward in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and is an update of the 2004 agreement, which ensured that monaco applies arrangements equivalent to those in the relevant eu directive on taxation of interest income. the agreement is to be welcomed and supported as it promotes transparency in tax matters and tax honesty. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european union and monaco have negotiated an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which aims to improve international cooperation on tax matters and tax transparency in international transactions. the agreement constitutes a significant step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and is an update of the 2004 agreement, which ensured that monaco applies arrangements equivalent to those in the relevant eu directive on taxation of interest income. i can't agree more.
in writing. ‒ the automatic exchange of information on financial information is welcome.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the agreement between the eu and the principality of monaco. the objective is to cooperate on the exchange of information on financial accounts, with a view to improving international cooperation in tax matters and tax transparency in international transactions. a sensible move that has my support.
in writing. ‒ this request concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for redundancies at carwall s.a., caterpillar belgium s.a. and doosan s.a. of 488 workers and 300 young people under 25 from the hennegau region who have neither another job nor completed any schooling or vocational training (neet youth). i therefore agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ on 17 december 2015, belgium submitted an application to mobilise the egf/2015/012 be/hainaut machinery for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies. some 300 young people under 25 years of age and 488 workers who are considered neets (not in education, employment or training) have been made redundant. the report shares the commission's view that the intervention criteria set out in article 4 (2) of the egf regulation are met and that belgium is therefore entitled to a financial contribution of eur 1 824 041 under this regulation. this amount corresponds to 60% of the total costs, which amount to eur 3 040 069. this financial contribution will support: job search facilitation, integrated training, support for business start-ups, support for collective projects, job search aids and training and continuing training aids. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ hainaut machinery in belgium is facing the redundancy of 480 employees. these staff are in a socioeconomically stressed area that needs this support. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the belgian company hainaut machinery is forced to lay off 480 employees to help them re-enter the labour market. the amount of the loan is eur 1,8 million. the belgian authorities argue that the redundancies were triggered by the decline in public and private infrastructure investment in the eu and the significant increase in steel prices in europe. i think it is right to give a perspective to these people who have fallen victim to a misguided economic policy.
in writing. ‒ while there are some good ideas in this report, the plan for the european fishing industry as a whole is to be seen critically. that is why i abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ sustainable fishing is a very positive contribution to the recovery of tuna stocks. however, i cannot entirely agree with this proposal for a regulation. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ in principle, i believe that the european union should pay particular attention to traditional tuna vessels in order to contribute to the recovery of tuna stocks. however, the report contains some points with which i cannot agree, which is why i abstained in this report.
in writing. ‒ this is a report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the proposal contains technical measures relating to the processes of transposition and placing of live tuna in cages. as the content of this issue does not directly concern us, we do not wish to interfere with the concerns of the member states actually actively concerned.
in writing. ‒ while there are some good ideas in this report, the plan for the european fishing industry as a whole is to be seen critically. that is why i abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea. sustainable ecological economy is of immense importance for our future. however, this report is ambiguous in some places. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea is the first new plan under the new common fisheries policy. this plan is intended to provide fishermen with clear objectives and predictability. the common fisheries policy pursues the common objective of long-term economic viability. fisheries and aquaculture must be environmentally and socially sustainable. this is the only way for european citizens to benefit from healthier food and a better quality of life. the report contains very good ideas, but there are some points on which i cannot agree and i have therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. sustainable, ecological fisheries are of immense importance to the seas.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report. the regulation will resolve the matrimonial property regime issues concerning jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments. the scope of the directive does not cover questions relating to the legal capacity, business capacity or legal capacity of the spouse, the existence, validity and recognition of the partnership, maintenance obligations and succession. the solution of these stock issues is clearly in the interest of the member states concerned.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur, by this legislative resolution, endorses the commission's proposal. the regulation will resolve the matrimonial property regime issues concerning jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments. i therefore gave this report a positive assessment.
in writing. ‒ this regulation resolves the question of matrimonial property regime, with regard to the jurisdiction of the applicable law, and the recognition and enforcement of judgments. the regulation does not concern matters relating to the legal capacity, capacity to conduct a business and capacity to act of the spouse, the existence, validity and recognition of the partnership, the maintenance of dependants and legal successors. the solution of these stock issues is clearly in the interest of the member states concerned.
in writing. ‒ this report is essentially concerned with jurisdiction, the applicable law, and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in the field of matrimonial property law. he refers to the fact that citizens from different member states are increasingly becoming involved with each other and these couples are settling in one member state. the proposed amendment makes a useful reference here to a clarification of the member states concerned, so that the member states themselves are free to accept these arrangements in the context of enhanced cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the report. the regulation will resolve the matrimonial property regime issues concerning jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments. the scope of the directive does not cover questions relating to the legal capacity, business capacity or legal capacity of the spouse, the existence, validity and recognition of the partnership, maintenance obligations and succession. the solution of these stock issues is clearly in the interest of the member states concerned.
in writing. ‒ the regulation will resolve the issues of the status of the property in respect of jurisdiction, the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments. the rapporteur, in this legislative resolution, endorses the commission's proposal. the aim is to reduce red tape. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this regulation resolves the question of matrimonial property regime, with regard to the jurisdiction of the applicable law, and the recognition and enforcement of judgments. the regulation does not concern matters relating to the legal capacity, capacity to conduct a business and capacity to act of the spouse, the existence, validity and recognition of the partnership, the maintenance of dependants and legal successors. the solution of these stock issues is clearly in the interest of the member states concerned.
in writing. ‒ this report is essentially concerned with jurisdiction, the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on matters of matrimonial property regime. he refers to the fact that citizens from different member states are increasingly becoming involved with each other and these couples are settling in one member state. the proposed amendment makes a useful reference here to a clarification of the member states concerned, so that member states are free to accept these arrangements in the context of enhanced cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training is designed to serve the cultural, economic and social development of europe. while education plays an important role in combating poverty and social exclusion, a focus on migrants, as much as the rapporteur puts them in the spotlight, hardly serves the objective of economic development of european citizens. that is why i do not agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ the report rightly recognises that humanities training offers better opportunities in working life. the increasing radicalisation in primary schools is also addressed. however, this report seeks to make it easier for asylum seekers to access our education system. the aim is to facilitate the recognition of non-european qualifications. this is clearly to be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against this report because it contains a lot of points that provide loopholes for non-europeans in european education systems. the european union is not to be given national competence in our education systems.
in writing. ‒ while promoting renewable energy is important, this report makes demands that go far beyond the eu's competence and technical capabilities. finally, the implementation of some of the recommendations in this report would create indirect subsidies for renewables, and this for technologies that are already marketable. linking renewable energy with energy poverty is also wrong: social policy is a matter for member states, while the integration of renewables is a technical problem that is currently being solved by many levies and subsidies. i am therefore abstaining on this report because of these considerations and because of my support for renewable energy.
in writing. ‒ the promotion of 'renewable energy' is of immense importance, but there are some inaccuracies in the wording of this report. the european union is also trying to take over powers. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted neutral on this report. the promotion of renewable energy is one of the greatest challenges of our time. the report contains, however, aspects which i find critical. there is also a climate package negotiated between member states which should be implemented first.
in writing. ‒ basically, this report is about the very important topic of 'renewable energy sources'. i too believe that in the future we will need a sustainable and, above all, independent energy model. however, unfortunately this report has become an example of how a proposal can be distorted by demands which are far outside the real world and far beyond the real technical possibilities. it is a fact that the energy mix of individual countries cannot be centrally determined because of geographical and industrial differences. i am in favour of a path towards more renewable energy sources, but i do not think that this report can make a positive contribution to this because of its demands, so i prefer to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some very welcome recommendations that would be useful in strengthening energy efficiency in europe and help consumers save electricity and money. however, certain requirements go far beyond the target and are associated with high costs and effort in implementation. the report also confuses energy efficiency with energy saving, but at the same time calls for more production from renewable sources, which is contradictory in that the share of this energy can only be a substitute for energy from conventional sources under certain conditions. i shall abstain on these considerations in this report.
in writing. ‒ energy efficiency is an important issue for a sustainable future for austria and it is one that cannot be addressed enough. however, some of the demands in this report are simply not feasible. in addition, various terms are mixed up, which is due to the quality of the report. that's why i've been holding back.
in writing. ‒ i voted neutral, as the basic approach to energy efficiency is fully supported, but some of the demands go far beyond the measure. in particular, the concept of energy efficiency is sometimes confused with energy saving. in addition, the restructuring of the entire local building stock in austria would create an enormous economic burden that could hardly be voted on.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. sustainable energy production and the optimal use of available resources is one of the greatest challenges of the 21st century. however, this report mixes different terms and therefore does not differentiate. the report also fails to mention the various regions of the european union. energy efficiency means something quite different in finland than in spain. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support the resolution as it stands, as it is too critical of the uk. in the end, the vote represents the will of the british people and must be respected accordingly.
in writing. ‒ the text is clearly a desire to cover up elements of self-criticism that brexit was actually caused by faulty eu policy. instead, the text makes it seem as if the british have done something wrong. our amendments are aimed above all at the resignation of mr juncker and at the recognition of the result. the outcome of the british referendum must be respected by the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i regret that i cannot congratulate anyone on this report, because it ignores the reality of europe. although one in five young people in the eurozone is already unemployed - one in two in greece - refugees are now to be eligible for work permits. these are unskilled or largely unskilled people who are coming to europe largely for economic reasons. i can still clearly recall the cheering words of daimler ceo zetsche, who dreamed of a new german economic miracle: because refugees are exactly the people that mercedes needs and is looking for. the sobering reality is that 54 refugees found work at the dax companies and 50 at deutsche post. this is ridiculous, a mockery, given the number of refugees in germany, which is one million. what's left? there will be low-wage jobs, social tensions and frustrated citizens who will turn away from the eu more than ever.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals. so you went into the mainstream and said that refugees are oppressed in europe, that refugees are treated badly. i don't know which countries you're talking about - i don't know all of them - but do you happen to know that in my home country of austria, a refugee can receive between 500 and 800 euros depending on the region, but also - if he has many children - up to 1000 euros? i do not know what europe you are talking about. but i think what you are saying is wrong, and i don't want to hear an answer, that in my home country, for example, refugees are not oppressed.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the present report on a new energy efficiency labelling of household appliances is primarily in the interest of consumers. the innovations are the label 2.0 as the rapporteur has called it, to whom i would like to thank very much and the database, which as we have heard today is not without controversy and which is not without controversy on the part of the national market surveillance authorities whose work it is intended to facilitate. the aim is to increase the efficiency of energy labelling by simplifying scaling, i.e. there will be no return to the familiar and proven a to g labels for energy-efficient products, including a process to scale up the existing a+++ plus a to d labels. the energy label is a success story we heard it today: 85% of european consumers rely on the label when making their purchasing decisions, and it is also a driving force in the industry for innovative developments: €450 million has been saved through the labels. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the consumer is thereby encouraged to buy the most efficient product. this should lead to a reduction in energy consumption and energy costs. the most important thing is that the actual electricity consumption should be indicated on the label, measured under real conditions and not under laboratory conditions. the rapporteur has also found a good middle ground for future rescaling: a rescaling is triggered automatically when 25% of the products sold in a category fall into the top efficiency class a or 50% into classes a and b. my concern was to save trade as little as possible. that was achieved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. trade for all! for me, as a social democrat, this means that the profit and wealth are distributed fairly to all in our society, that the standard of living of all is improved and that not only a few benefit from it. responsible trade and investment policies involve workers and consumers, all citizens, and also open up more opportunities for small and mediumsized enterprises in world trade. responsible politics supports, promotes and protects the eu's values such as democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. it is essential that the principles of responsibility and sustainability are enshrined in all trade agreements. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union. i hope that the commission and the council will now finally take our demands seriously and implement them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a few things to clarify: the first thing that is important to me is the inviolability of democratic elections. how can you think of denying the british people a democratically-made verdict, of refusing to recognise it, or of saying, as elmar brok did, that it was merely advisory? not at all. it is not advisory, it is decisive. even if now 10,000 are in the streets shedding crocodile tears that britain will take the path out of the european union, you will note that over 17 million britons voted to leave. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the second thing i want to start off with is not to meet the british with resentment or revenge. no, the british are part of the european family of nations. the british will remain, and now it is a matter of drawing up a treaty at bilateral and multilateral level which will benefit the citizens on both sides of the border. the last thing: don't draw the wrong conclusions. we are not, as mr schulz here is doing, calling for a central european government or, as mr juncker is doing, for ttip and ceta to be passed by the parliaments. if we give back the rights of the parliaments and the member states, then european cooperation has a future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. politics is not a game, and that is why i am calling for more seriousness, more sincerity, more prudence and more determination. europeans, let us no longer be lied to, misled and robbed of our future by the anti-eu, nationalist, blame-mongering, cowardly, anti-future, populist forces. let's not let them dictate the agenda any longer. let us finally stand up for european ideals! let us build the european union together! we have to stop blaming the other side. let us stand up to our responsibility for the future of europe and to our shared responsibility for the present state of affairs. we must stop playing games of partisan politics and tactics at the expense of cohesion in the european union. populism today only strengthens nationalism. let us involve the citizens! let us not leave them with their worries, fears, questions and hopes. if we take citizens and their questions seriously, we must approach them sincerely, fight for european democracy and make the eu more effective, efficient, transparent and the continent's voice in the world, we, the citizens of europe, do better.
i have to say, madam president, few really expected brexit. many were happy and cheering, but many were dismayed and unsure, and more are becoming every day, because they see how they were deceived and cheated and that the spokesmen of brexit had no plan and simply got away. yes, it's a dramatic situation with uncertain outcome. but it is no reason to lose your temper, no reason to gloat, and certainly no reason to settle old scores. it is time for prudence and deliberation. europe is not dead, as the balance sheet of the dutch presidency shows. but it is time for fundamental reforms, that is the message of this referendum, it is time for more of a community europe. the first is that the ball is in the court of the united kingdom. it has a responsibility to create clarity, and we cannot afford uncertainty in this situation. first, we need a clear and rapid answer on the intended withdrawal. that is fair to the partners of the past, but also to scotland and northern ireland. secondly, it must be clear to everyone that there can be no europe à la carte. the internal market means the free movement of persons, and the united kingdom has benefited from it. thirdly, and above all, the millions of eu citizens in the uk must not be victims of this crisis, the increase in xenophobic attacks is worrying, and people have a right to live their lives as they wish, as do the millions of british expatriates in the european union. we have a responsibility in this crisis not to play people against people and to set in motion a negative cycle that none of us wants.
mr president, commission and council presidents, ladies and gentlemen, and those in the gallery! what we have witnessed in these last ten days is like a shakespearean play. those who have promoted brexit with lies and false promises, many of them also promoting the destruction of the european union, who have rubbed the sand in the eyes of the people of great britain because they thought that the good old days would come again, that the good old days were supposedly so good, can no longer look those who have deceived them in the eye. you're denying responsibility and resigning. mr johnson, mr farage, you did it. that's the principle of the right-wing populists. first to lie and cheat and then to not take responsibility. it can't be. we stand for a europe which must become stronger, socially, politically and ecologically. we need a new convention with broad participation of civil society and citizens. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the union.
the commission has already done so. we've heard a lot about brexit today. the majority of those in this room are not happy with the decision of the british people. but i think what we need to do from now on is not blame each other. i've seen it again today in this high house. we are always finding fault with ourselves, instead of thinking that this strengthened, united europe can only work if we feel responsible for this common europe at all political levels - as members of the european parliament, as representatives of the council, but also as representatives of the regions and municipalities. i therefore hope that we will be able to live this common europe much more than we already do by meeting not only national parliaments and members of parliament, but also, much more intensively than in the past, with representatives of local authorities and ngos. because only if we are prepared to take joint responsibility for this europe, to transport it where it really is in the interests of the people, to bring this european added value, can we help to ensure that we are not divided but that we grow together.
in writing. the uk vote has shown that cynical politicians have seen an opportunity to exploit public concern about very specific issues to boost their own careers. but it backfired. they have turned a very complex issue into a simple yes/no referendum that very few people have understood. these questions are too important to be used to play a dangerous game of fire, as has happened in the united kingdom. technological change, globalisation, climate change - all these pose enormous challenges for the political system, but also for the population, which must be brought up to date with appropriate measures in the field of education and training. now we see: in britain, these politicians have left a mess, they have resigned instead of taking responsibility. and i'm not so sure that brexit is actually going to happen. the constitution makes such a step extremely difficult, let us think only of the vote in parliament or how the scottish parliament should and must be involved in this decision.
in writing. on 23 june, 52 percent of britons voted to leave the eu. this referendum has far-reaching geopolitical implications and deals a severe blow to europe's second largest economy. early indicators are already pointing to a recession. in june, uk construction activity contracted by the largest amount since the financial crisis. credit rating agencies have downgraded their credit ratings and the targeted budget surplus will not be reached by 2020. the referendum has had a negative impact on the stock market values of british banks and airlines in particular. the pound's exchange rate fell to its lowest level in 31 years. the pound lost 9 percent against the euro and 11 percent against the dollar two weeks after the referendum. in total, the uk vote wiped out €5 trillion of market capitalisation worldwide, twice the size of the uk economy. experts estimate that 80 000 jobs will be lost in the london financial sector, and the european banking authority will also be moving its headquarters from london. other eu member states see relocation of their headquarters away from london as an opportunity for their own business location. according to the european central bank, the vote will have a massive impact on economic growth across europe. the ecb's economists expect growth to flatten out by up to 0.5% over the next three years.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. however, since it is essential to further intensify cooperation between the eu and peru on irregular migration and since the competence for a short-stay visa waiver for peruvian citizens should remain with the member states, i do not think there is any need to agree to this waiver at this stage.
in writing. ‒ this is the vote on the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver with peru. i do not see why this measure should be taken. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that there is no need for a short-stay visa waiver and that the competences should remain with the member states.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to lift the visa requirement for peruvian citizens for short stays. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the agreement must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ this is a technical report on ultrafine particulate matter (ufpm) emissions from combustion engines and air quality in general. those combustion engines which are not installed in motor vehicles and in combustion plants and are not treated in the context of industrial emissions are responsible for around 15% of all nox emissions and 5% of all particulate matter emissions in the eu. the commission is now proposing stricter standards based on us standards. as regards the newly established thresholds, it is noted that many international eu producers already voluntarily comply with these thresholds in order to gain access to the us market. however, the time period established by the commission between the establishment of the examination procedure (end of 2016) and the entry into force of the new limits (2019) is extremely short, so that it is questionable whether there is enough time to develop new engines. because many smes are affected by this regulation and the impact assessment does not specifically mention the emission savings, i abstain from this report.
in writing. ‒ this proposal deals with air pollution from machinery and equipment not used in road transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. but when we consider that a large part of the limit values are already being complied with and that the required test cycles and test procedures are far beyond the scope of what is necessary in practice, i have to abstain, despite the basic agreement of the vote.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because a very large number of smes will be affected by this regulation. furthermore, the emission savings cannot be specifically presented in the impact assessment.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation addresses air pollution caused by non-road mobile machinery (nrmm). the existing emission guidelines for mobile machinery and equipment are necessary. many eu manufacturers of nrmm engines already comply with the limit values voluntarily due to international trade. the period between the establishment of the test cycles and the test procedure (end of 2016) and the entry into force of the new limits (2019) is simply too short for the development of new engines. many smes would also be affected and the emission savings in the impact assessment have not yet been specifically presented. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report on social inclusion and labour market integration calls for the integration of refugees into the labour market, access to language courses after arrival, and to housing, education and training, social security and health care. however, it does not sufficiently address current unemployment, especially youth and longterm unemployment, in the eu. this is still at an alarming level and balancing supply and demand in the european labour market continues to be a major challenge for member states. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a common european asylum system. i think that the main thing that this report would do is to increase centralization and in doing so to relieve the member states of their responsibilities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i do not understand how the demand for the opening of the labour market to refugees can be compared with the countless unemployed young people in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because there is a huge youth unemployment in the european union. the report also lacks any form of social integration. i cannot agree with this report and i am against refugees having easier access to the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for a common european asylum system, which would lead to further centralisation and strip national states of their right to sovereignty. the report also calls for the access of refugees to the labour market to be facilitated. in the case of austria, this would mean lifting the six-month deadline. the eu is also committed to the development of a european labour market, which is open to all young people. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ the report on the implementation of parliament's recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility pursues in principle worthy objectives such as promoting sustainable development, improving working conditions and making greater efforts in the field of environmental protection. however, the explicit call on the commission to adopt a gender mainstreaming approach in all policy measures, including trade policy, is problematic. that is why i am abstaining on the report.
in writing. ‒ this is generally about the importance of trade and foreign direct investment for the protection of human rights. the proposal is distorted by demands for gender mainstreaming to the extent that i have had to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report contains good approaches in principle, but it cannot be accepted because of the further consolidation of the idea of gender mainstreaming. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the importance of trade and foreign direct investment (fdi) for the protection of human rights is discussed. it also emphasises that foreign direct investment and trade can increase prosperity in poorer countries. however, i think there are some gaps in the report which need to be filled before it can be adopted.
in writing. ‒ the report on a forward-looking innovative strategy for trade and investment presents the union as the healthiest economy in the world, despite the fact that a decline in the eu's economic performance is forecast over the next 50 years. the rapporteur calls for trade and investment agreements to be designed to promote human rights, labour standards and social standards, and calls for reform of existing trade defence mechanisms in the face of china's demand for market economy status, but fails to make clear statements on critical issues such as geographical indications of origin, and continues to regard isds as a legitimate means of foreign trade. i do not agree with this report for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ this report seeks to illustrate how opening up the market can generate more foreign investment and growth a view that is quick to convince on paper but quickly falters when projected onto reality. for example, in addition to the lack of consideration of the increased pressure on the already weak labour market through tougher competition, isds is seen as a legitimate means of foreign trade.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against this report because it focuses too much on the previous line of commissioner malmström, contains little poignant statements on critical issues such as geographical indications of origin and continues to regard isds as a legitimate means of foreign trade.
in writing. ‒ the report mentions that increased foreign investment and thus the full opening up of our market could lead to more growth. but what is not mentioned is that the increased competitive pressure will also destroy jobs. the report also calls for the establishment of a european drug policy, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity, and for the development of a european drug policy. the report also continues to consider isds as a legitimate means of foreign trade. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ this report rightly recognises that trafficking in human beings is part of organised crime and that the fight against it needs to be given a more prominent place in the eu's foreign policy strategy. the high number of missing migrant minors within the eu shows the special need for protection of this group, and children, in particular, who become victims of trafficking, are often abused for child pornography. i agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ this resolution highlights the dangers of ruthless and hasty visa liberalisation. the past has shown that such measures can inadvertently promote sex tourism and human trafficking. it is therefore appropriate to extend crossborder cooperation in combating illegal immigration and to establish the importance of a country of origin for illegal immigration before issuing visas to such persons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it contains very good ideas, for example calling for the expansion of crossborder cooperation to combat child marriage and sex tourism. another point is the fight against illegal trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the fight against trafficking in human beings to be given a wider role in foreign policy. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of specialised services for the protection of the rights of the child. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. on the other hand, the report also addresses child pornography and similar sensitive issues, which i condemn in the strongest possible terms. that is why i have agreed to the report.
the next item is the debate on the report by jan olbrycht and isabelle thomas, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the preparation of the post-election revision of the mff 2014-2020: parliament's contribution in the run-up to the commission proposal (2015/2353 ((ini)) (a8-0224/2016).
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are concerned primarily with headings 3 and 4, security and citizenship of the union and europe in the world. my personal wish is that we, together with the heads of state or government, should increase the budget of the european union by 0.1% and allocate this 0.1% to the crisis. this would help refugees, migration and the fight against terrorism. the main concern must be to help on the ground. how can we ensure food security, how can we bring clean water and health care to the ground? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how can we support them? we therefore call for the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs to be extended to countries outside the european union. we also call for the migrant entrepreneurship programme to be made a success within the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report makes a number of recommendations to make corporate taxation fairer and more transparent. the rapporteur has today described it as a new architecture for a fairer financial system, based on a common corporate tax base. but there are also other proposals, a series of proposals and measures to combat the abuse of patent boxes: withholding tax, transfer pricing, but also, in the context of the external strategy, the creation of blacklists and the creation of central lists of beneficial owners of letterbox companies. a number of these points have already been accepted by the council, and commissioner moscovici has also told us today that the first blacklists will be available as early as next year. the member states of the european union lose about eur 70 billion a year through aggressive tax planning, and it is therefore high time that this coordination took place. let's get this over with. we need to deliver so that people can believe in a fairer tax system again, and 75% of all europeans, according to a recent survey, want to see more action to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance. that means it's high time to act fast.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the committee was successful, although the renewal of the taxe committee did not bring any substantial new findings. we have managed to improve information, increase transparency, increase protection for whistleblowers, increase pressure to review distortions of competition, and bring millions of taxpayers' money from google, amazon and others into the coffers of the european union. we knew before that the main problem was the lack of cooperation between the member states on taxation. we know that the main shortcoming is the absence of a european tax law. we have structural problems. the practices of the companies were not illegal, but were the legal exploitation of disparities between national tax systems. we can only tackle the problem at its roots if we harmonize in europe what exactly is taxed in companies, if we get a european tax law in europe, if we get european tax revenues and get more european harmonized tax policy. we haven't finished the job. we're off to a good start.
in writing. the work of the special committee on taxation has been completed. the initiatives are now to be taken in the committees working on the legislation. some of these are already in the works or have been adopted. the proposal for a directive of 12 april on the public reporting by country of: clearly, we in the european parliament will have to set new standards. we have committed ourselves to this in the taxe ii final report: in the report we clearly criticise the fact that the proposal lags behind previous european parliament legislation in terms of criteria, scope and also thresholds for public reporting. as an amendment to the balance sheet directive, the purpose of the public cbcr is in particular tax transparency in the public interest. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. i am thinking of the workers, but also of smaller companies. all those who play by the rules have a right to know where the big competitors make their profits, where and to what extent they pay taxes for them. the multilateral enterprises must be required to contribute to society. multis, like any other small or medium-sized enterprise, must assume their responsibilities: as employers, as taxpayers and as players in europe's social market economy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this morning, in the debate on brexit, we often heard that the eu would not be able to act and would not be able to act as a community. the decision to establish a european border and coast guard agency tomorrow proves otherwise. in less than six months, it has succeeded in finding workable solutions to a problem that has paralysed europe for months: the ineffective protection of our external borders. the regulation is important for several reasons: for the first time, there is european support for member states when they are unable to control their borders - so we have a european dimension. secondly, the parliamentary control rights have been strengthened as regards accountability, information and the selection of the director. thirdly, it has also succeeded in improving the protection of fundamental rights, particularly for children and disabled people. so far, so good. i'm going to go. but this regulation is only one element in solving the so-called refugee crisis. we must also tackle the causes of displacement, we must provide aid on the ground and, above all, we must have humanitarian corridors of entry. this is the most important element of a different migration policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the agreement on common border and coastal protection shows our determination to save the schengen area and to preserve the free movement of persons as one of the pillars of the european union. but this will only work if there is a european approach, because common borders require a common approach. so what we're seeing here is a step in the right direction. it's just a shame it's a little short. a glance at the contents shows that it does not correspond to the title and its expectations. we have unfortunately missed another opportunity to create a genuine common european system. half-hearted solutions will not protect us in future crises. we should look ahead and create instruments which not only remedy the structural weaknesses of the past but also those of the future. we would have had the opportunity and also the moral obligation to take full and correct measures to show the citizens what a genuine european approach looks like. that would be very desirable for all of us.
i have to say, madam president, it is a good day for the citizens of europe and proof that the eu is delivering what it is supposed to. the european border and coast guard regulation was implemented in just six months from the commission proposal to the trilog result . we all know that only effective protection of the eu's external borders can guarantee freedom of movement within the schengen area, while at the same time fighting criminal smugglers and saving lives. what the european people's party has been calling for for years is finally being realised against some of the fundamentalist resistance that had to be broken. frontex will be doubled in staff, technical equipment, a rapid reaction force, and operations will be stepped up in close cooperation with the eu member states. let me just say this: there are still steps to be taken. we're not done yet, but this commissioner and his team will get it done.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 july 2016. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for the second reading of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union (05581/1/2016 - c8-0188/2016 - 2013/0027(cod)) (rapporteur: andreas schwab (a8-0211/2016)).
i thank you, mr schwab, also for your concrete examples. i remember the thing in austria, how it was when the network just didn't work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 july 2016. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
madam president, you are also deeply involved in working with us in the science and technology options assessment (stoa) committee and we have a target to deliver for the next generation up to 2050. so how can we invest in research, innovation, upscaling, acceleration and spin—offs? i think europe has to deliver wealth and i do not think it is good if we have a debate about how we can deliver poverty to everybody because poverty to everybody would mean that we should not do anything. but the truth is that horizon 2020 and the structural funds are a wonderful package to give the right framework for those who want to deliver and create new jobs and wealth. the truth is that we are in a global world and we have to look forward to the think tanks of this world to see how we can help people who want to be self-employed to create their first job. the horizon 2020 programme with the financial facility could deliver what we want to have. therefore it is very clear that smart specialisation should get new jobs into the right dimension. education and vocational training will play a key role and we will do our utmost to support the commission in coming up with this new concept.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i was coordinator of the committee when it put this report to the vote, and mr cramer, the chairman, seems to have missed a bit of sleep at that time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report has, of course, been shaped in accordance with our political views. this was of course not to the liking of mr cramer, the socialists and the greens, and the report was not adopted by the committee - so far, so good. but then, in a coordinator meeting which he started 15 minutes before the time the sitting was called, mr cramer decided to take over this report under rule 50 of the rules of procedure, without informing us in any way. apart from the fact, mr cramer, that the action was not particularly collegial - as you probably know - what happened was politically motivated and quite shameful. the problem is that i am not used to anything else from this chairman, and again, this approach is profoundly undemocratic. as regards the criticism of this report and of emsa, it should be noted that we are opposed to the creation of new agencies, as they have proved to be money-wrecking machines. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is simply unacceptable to us.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur calls for the establishment of financial and technical rules to enable the republic of azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes for third countries. the position of azerbaijan, particularly in foreign policy, makes it difficult to accept closer cooperation at present. that is why i abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to involve azerbaijan more closely in european projects and to lay down financial and technical rules to this end. but since i would like to emphasize the very dubious attitude of azerbaijan to human rights, especially in foreign policy, i do not see the need for closer cooperation between the european union and azerbaijan.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because i believe that financial and technical rules should be established to enable the republic of azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes for third countries.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to establish financial and technical rules to enable the republic of azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes for third countries. the european union is also committed to the development of the region, and the eu is committed to the development of the region. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur considers that the union should receive financial resources from contributions that have not been used or come directly from penalties for breaches of contract. this is to clear outstanding payments, to use these funds as an emergency fund when extraordinary payments are due, or to supplement existing funds such as the africa fund. but since budget surpluses should be repaid in a quota to the member states, which is becoming increasingly important because of national budget cuts, i do not agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ this report inexplicably asks that in future contributions from non-use or penalties for breach of contract should be credited to the union to make outstanding payments or to use them for rescue funds. this is in complete contradiction with the previously accepted common practice of reimbursing member states a quota for excesses. i therefore ask that the european union should become a savings bank on the basis of such considerations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it assumes that those contributions which are due to non-use or penalties for breach of contract are to be credited to the union to make outstanding payments. so far, the budgetary transfers have been reimbursed to the member states. with the budget cuts, they could very well need the money, too. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ contributions resulting from non-use or penalties for breach of contract are intended to be used by the union to make payments or to be used as a contingency fund in the event of extraordinary payments. the report is to be rejected because the member states have been paying back budget surpluses in an aliquot way, a situation which is becoming more and more pronounced as a result of austerity policies and national budget cuts.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on improving the coordination of national regulatory authorities in the event of attacks against it systems in europe. the aim is to prevent the theft or compromise of personal data. the overall proposal has already been negotiated in the trilogue. the starting point is that in the event of an advance warning, national regulatory authorities should coordinate more effectively on how to respond to an attack and national contingency plans should be better coordinated. there is nothing to oppose this, and that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is about improving the coordination of attacks against it systems in europe. it is also about protecting your own data and preventing data theft. i think it's very useful to have a contingency plan for possible attacks.
in writing. ‒ this is a report on the proposal for a framework for energy efficiency labelling. although i can take a lot of credit for the proposal, since it is a relief to the present situation, especially for traders and producers, i do feel that the proposal is too strict, especially in the area of deadlines. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ in principle, the proposal would be a relief for dealers and manufacturers of equipment in many respects, but it is very strict, particularly with regard to deadlines and the database, without taking into account individual dealers. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal is in many ways a relief for dealers and manufacturers of equipment who have only recently been obliged by a delegated act to affix labels. the commission proposal is very strict, particularly with regard to the deadlines and the database, without taking into account how individual traders should relabel their labels or what the final use of the database should be. i shall therefore abstain on this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard. the rapporteur sometimes calls for more efficient and intensified cooperation between the relevant union agencies in the field of coast guard duties. this type of cooperation should allow for synergies between agencies without changing their areas of responsibility. however, the report focuses almost exclusively on the structures and institutions of the union without adequately addressing and involving the authorities of the member states. that is why i abstain from this report.
in writing. ‒ this is about the introduction of a common border and coastguard, in line with the strategy of a common european asylum system. the agency for border and coast guard shall, together with the national authorities, form the european border and coast guard. the present proposal aims to substantially improve the agency's ability to deal effectively with current or future threats at the external borders by enabling it to act on its own initiative and to support, evaluate and coordinate the actions carried out by member states at the external borders. but since such important issues as border control are being mixed up with migration management and the demand that illegal migrants not be returned immediately to the third country bordering the eu, i cannot give my consent to the report and will therefore abstain.
in writing. ‒ the use of frontex as an agency alone is ineffective, there are no immediate measures. in 2015, even small austria carried out more returns than frontex in europe as a whole. for this reason, we should rethink the effectiveness and think about controls. i have abstained on the basis of the foregoing.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a european border and coast guard would be a good idea in principle, but it would also be a good idea to secure the eu's external borders. however, as frontex has already shown, upgrades are not always carried out as originally intended. in addition, there is always talk of migration management, which has nothing to do with border control. but as i am a strong advocate of better border security, i will be watching closely to see how it is implemented. i cannot therefore agree with the present report and am therefore in favour of a revision of the report. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ this report originally took the view that the member states concerned should supervise and manage the newly created agency. this request was not shared by the committee responsible, which led to a change of rapporteur. the report now before us provides that this eu agency will regulate the maritime borders and thus border controls, or, in a broader sense, the actual migration of the member states concerned. this demand must be rejected as it leads to further centralisation which neither signals an effective fight against uncontrolled migration nor allows the involvement of the member states concerned. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ a good proposal in principle, which leaves a lot of autonomy to the member states and emphasises that the agency's activities must not affect the territorial sovereignty of the member state responsible. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as well, as i do not think it makes sense for another eu agency to regulate maritime borders and thus border protection, or in a broader sense, the actual migration of the member states concerned.
in writing. ‒ the positive aspect of the proposal is that member states should decide for themselves whether they want to follow the commission's recommendations. it also mentions that the activities of the agency must not affect the member state with territorial competence. however, since this is an eu agency that is supposed to regulate maritime borders and thus border protection, i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ this is a report on the proposal to establish a european fisheries control agency. the aim is to establish better coordination of surveillance, prevention and control measures at sea. i particularly welcome the fact that harmonising effects are being achieved here without going beyond the national level. i think that these proposals are sensible and i therefore approve them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it coordinates surveillance, prevention and control at sea at european level to improve maritime situational awareness and to support coherent and efficient effective action.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates better coordination of surveillance, prevention and control measures at sea. the exchange of information between the three agencies, the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency, is intended to avoid duplication of work. the sovereignty of national states must be respected. the agencies must not be given the opportunity to control the member states. the report is a good one, but since it has a positive effect on coordination, i shall be voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to make the olaf monitoring committee more independent, in order to improve olaf's credibility and increase transparency in the evaluation of olaf's work. this is also a requirement that has been repeatedly raised in the budgetary discharges of recent years. to date, the director-general of olaf has authority over the appointment of posts on the control committee, which can easily lead to conflicts of interest. the proposal to separate strictly budgetary and staff decisions between olaf and the supervisory committee is to be welcomed. that is why i am in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the improvement of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the aim is to strengthen credibility by creating a more independent structure. it is a very sensible and necessary proposal, and i am happy to accept it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i think it is very positive that budgets and staff decisions are separated between olaf and the supervisory committee. the control committee would thus be more independent of olaf and would thus be able to assess olaf's work more impartially.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to make the audit committee more independent of olaf, so that it can assess olaf's work more impartially. the credibility of olaf can be enhanced and safeguarded if the supervisory committee can work independently. an important point is that budgets and staff decisions are separated between olaf and the supervisory committee. the proposal is therefore to be approved.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur calls for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework (mff) to be extended and adapted to allow for the creation of new budget lines. the purpose of these new budget lines would be to better address the current crises in syria, the middle east and several regions of africa and the resulting humanitarian consequences and migration crisis. however, the report fails to address the potential danger of a resulting majority of member states. the commission has also not addressed the question of whether it could lead to possible cuts in budget lines which have been working well so far and which have a real added value for citizens, such as research. for these reasons i shall vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ a report on the preparation of the revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. i therefore cannot agree to this report in the interests of sound budgetary policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i see the danger that member states will have to make more payments and that the budget lines that have been working well so far, with real added value for citizens, will receive less funding.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework (mff) is to be set up, restructured and extended in certain areas to create new budget lines and to better manage the current crises in the middle east and north africa as well as the refugee crisis. there is a risk that additional payments could be required from the member states. in addition, funds could be cut from budget lines that have been working well so far and that would actually add value to the citizens, for example in research. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for a common consolidated corporate tax base, in addition to summarising all assets held by individuals, companies and all corporations. i cannot see any positive effect in this or in the call for a 'union tax policy coherence and coordination centre'.
in writing. ‒ the report contains good approaches in principle, which should be evaluated positively. however, i am also very critical of some of the demands made. for example, i am critical of the requirement that all assets held by individuals, companies and all entities such as trusts and foundations be aggregated in a global directory to which tax authorities have full access.
in writing. ‒ there are some demands in the report which i find critical. this includes the introduction of a full and mandatory common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). the report also calls for all assets held by individuals, companies and all corporate entities to be aggregated in a global directory to which tax authorities have full access. i cannot agree with the report in its entirety and therefore abstain.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy remains the main instrument for investing in the real economy to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities and to counter the effects of the financial crisis. the basic tenor of the resolution is that the current funding situation is too complex, partly overlapping and thus creating inefficiencies. the first approach would be to exploit synergies to use funds more effectively and efficiently. this approach promotes sustainable development and i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ this resolution aims to reduce the complexity of structural and support instruments, which are largely overlapping. in this context, a more efficient use of resources and the development of synergies would be desirable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report mentioned above because it addresses the complexity of the funding situation and criticises the fact that some of the funding is overlapping and therefore inefficient. the money must be used more effectively and more efficiently.
in writing. ‒ the current funding situation is too complex, and there is some overlap, creating inefficiency. the first approach would be to explore synergies in order to use funds more effectively and efficiently. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the strategic priorities for the commission's work programme for 2017 calls for some financial reinforcement of the commission and the eu. the commission is also proposing to intensify cooperation with nato, in addition to the aspects of centralisation which should be rejected. for these reasons i do not agree with this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ a report which calls for equalization and centralisation, as well as financial reinforcements towards the commission and the eu, under the guise of a 'work programme', and which then culminates in a call for intensified cooperation with nato, cannot count on my support.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, in addition to the equalization and centralisation aspects, there are also financial increases towards the commission and the european union. the council also called for closer cooperation with nato.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on amendment 40 on the protection of whistleblowers because it is not true that whistleblowers are not protected by the directive on the protection of trade secrets. under pressure from the social democrats, an exception was obtained for them, so that whistleblowers cannot be prosecuted if they reveal illegal activities, professional or other misconduct in the public interest. i continue to advocate the adoption of a clear legal framework for the uniform protection of whistleblowers across the eu. i therefore voted in favour of amendment no 8. without courageous individuals like antoine deltour, the aggressive tax avoidance of many multinational companies would not have come to light. whistleblowers play a crucial role in the detection of these tax structures and must be protected from penalties.
in writing. ‒ the report should be rejected because, in addition to the equalization and centralisation aspects, financial reinforcements are also being directed towards the commission and the eu. the european parliament also called for closer cooperation with nato and for an eu policy on economic migration and legal immigration.
in writing. ‒ this resolution criticises japan for resuming whaling. under the guise of a new scientific whale research programme (newrep-a), this country is clearly ignoring the judgment of the icj and undermining the protection of marine biodiversity and ecosystems. it should be noted that the newrep-a programme was examined by a panel of scientists from the international whaling commission. this panel found that the proposal does not adequately explain why whales must be killed for sampling. i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ a very good and critical report in general. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. however, i give my approval for the sake of the positive tenor.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because, despite international bans, japan continues to hunt whales for purportedly scientific purposes and has killed more than 17 000 whales between 1986, the year of the ban, and 2009. i also see the danger to the conservation status of the whale stocks.
in writing. ‒ i think the report is a positive one, as it is very critical of japan's activities. i shall therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution on an eu guarantee for any losses incurred by the european investment bank calls for the eib not to allow financing for projects in belarus. the reason given for this demand is that it is supposed to bring only marginal improvement to existing human rights issues. it is economically unjustifiable to prohibit investment opportunities for the eib in belarus, in particular in view of the fact that sanctions have already been lifted. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution calls for no funding to be made available for projects in belarus. given that the sanctions against belarus have been lifted for a good reason and that the european investment bank (eib) has a mandate to improve the economic situation of the citizens in the states, i cannot understand the reason for this request.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for the eib not to allow financing for projects in belarus, as the human rights situation has improved only marginally, despite the decision to lift sanctions against belarus following a general amnesty for political prisoners. as the eib is a bank seeking returns with a mandate to improve the economic situation of citizens in the states, it would be wrong to link investment opportunities with human rights concerns here. that is why i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the eib to refrain from financing projects in belarus because of the marginal improvement in human rights, despite the decision to lift sanctions against belarus following a general amnesty for political prisoners. the eib's mission is to improve the economic situation of citizens in the states, and it would be wrong to link investment opportunities with human rights concerns. the report must therefore be rejected. the second resolution concerns investment in the ostrovets nuclear power plant. however, it should be noted that eu interference in national decision-making powers, such as the energy mix, is to be rejected. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain from voting on this resolution. the rapporteur objects to the commission delegated regulation clarifying the criteria relating to the method for setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities. the resolution directive does not provide for a harmonised minimum level of bail-in instruments at the level of individual banks. the draft regulation sets out how resolution authorities are to set these requirements, with the minimum mrel level and the appropriate composition of mrel for each bank being at the discretion of the respective authority. however, no assessment is provided for systemic institutions to determine whether the required burden-sharing (loss compensation and recapitalisation of at least 8%) is met.
in writing. ‒ a highly technical report on the restructuring and resolution of credit institutions. the draft regulation sets out how resolution authorities are to set these essential requirements for individual banks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ this delegated regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standard of the european banking authority, as amended by the commission, in order to ensure compliance with the credit institutions recovery and resolution directive. i criticise that there is no assessment for systemic institutions on whether they can comply with the burden sharing principles, which require shareholders and lenders to contribute an amount to absorb losses and have a recapitalisation rate including own funds of 8%. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ as there are some points in this resolution which have not yet been clarified or are unclear, i abstained.
mr president, i would like to apologise to ms mogherini for the fact that she has to listen to yet another speech – and, worse still, in german! so please:seit beginn meiner tätigkeit im europäischen parlament habe ich immer wieder ein selbstbewusstes, kräftiges, robustes auftreten der eu in außenpolitischen belangen gefordert. ich danke ihnen also ausdrücklich, frau mogherini, dass sie mit diesem dokument einen ersten wichtigen und richtigen schritt in diese richtung gesetzt haben. sie haben erkannt: es kann nicht so weitergehen, dass ein kontinent mit 500 millionen einwohnern nicht in der lage ist, seine stimme dann deutlich zu erheben, wenn es gilt, krisen und konflikte zu bewältigen, die unmittelbar auf europa einwirken. insbesondere die eu-mitgliedstaaten müssen aber jetzt die blockaden aufgeben, um dieses gemeinsame ziel zu erreichen. noch wichtiger als das umfassende dokument ist jetzt aber die rasche und konsequente umsetzung der darin enthaltenen vorschläge und anregungen.
mr president, this is a happy day today because leyla yunus, shortlisted for the sakharov prize, is here today with us, free, together with her husband and her daughter. they were in the plenary today, they are meeting with my group now. and yes, it is true that in azerbaijan 150 people have been pardoned recently. but also another 70 are in prison because of their political ideas. so we have progress, but at the same time there is not enough pressure that we can exert to stop those authoritarian rulers who put people into prison because they criticise them. we need to do more and there needs to be more coherence between trade and economic instruments and our human rights policies. and i am sure that if we phased out fossil fuels, oil and gas, we would be a lot more independent towards rulers who put people like leyla yunus in prison. and luckily, she is not in prison anymore but here with us. let me raise one other group of people: lesbians, gays, bisexual, transgender and intersex people in this world. it is good we have guidelines from the external action service. the un human rights council just voted for an independent expert to look into the plight of lgbti people. we need to do more because people need to be able to live free from fear all over this planet.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the rapporteur. like the european union, the united nations faces a wide range of challenges: global refugee movements, climate change, global terrorism, the war in syria, the chaos in libya, but also hunger and poverty in many regions of the world. these challenges are now about making the right and important choices and presenting fast and sustainable solutions. it is undeniable that the united nations must remain the first point of contact when it comes to global security. the united nations must also address new security challenges in a more proactive manner. i would like to mention in particular international terrorism and so-called hybrid threats. the main need here is to set up and expand appropriate monitoring structures. i would also like to thank in particular the secretary-general, mr ban ki-moon, whose term of office expires in december.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i do not want to talk about the hot topic, but i will start by telling you what is particularly important to us here: we need a horizontal directive, a general directive that really protects whistleblowers in general, not just sectoral rules. it is a question of political will, not of legal basis. we looked into this, there's a legal basis. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to take the matter further than it is doing now. i therefore take the opening remarks of the presidency of the council as a positive sign that we can and must do something here. we have set this debate well in terms of timing. it is absolutely essential for us social democrats that this should take place today, because we are now looking back at a judgment handed down last week against antoine deltour and also against raphaël halet, and that is simply scandalous a judgment which is a disgrace to europe. people like deltour who show that they are acting in the public interest should be celebrated, and we in the european parliament have taken this into account by awarding deltour the european citizen's prize 2015. now this mr deltour is being sentenced by a court for exactly what he won an award for. that means something has gone wrong here. it's a flaw in the system, and that's why we have to fix this system. that is to say, we need - and i repeat it again - a horizontal directive and not just one that is sectoral, because otherwise we could not count on this cooperation, on the help that these valuable whistleblowers are giving us, in the work we are doing here in the european parliament, when it comes to luxleaks, that is to say, our taxe report today, when it comes to revealing what is still contained in the panama papers. that is why the commission is now in charge. i am sure that the european parliament will give it its full support.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, we must say that basel iii is having an effect. since 2010, a capital gap of eur 800 billion has been closed. the debt ratio rose from 3% to 5%, the average risk weights decreased, and there was a general increase in capital. we are now entering the final, decisive phase of the biggest banking regulation in the history of the european union. what's the target? restore confidence in risk-weighted equity, reduce the range of risk-weighted assets. it is in this revision of the standard approach to credit risk that we must focus on the right points. the stability requirements for banks must also be implemented in the light of their economic consequences. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the risk weighting for corporate equity to include equity-linked securities. the granularity criterion of a maximum of 0,2% of the total retail portfolio for individual smes or retail clients may also have several unintended negative consequences. we must think about what we have to do to give the supervisors the opportunity to put justified individual exceptions into the overall framework. we must keep our eyes peeled. mr president, we must also ensure that the commission is finally the coordinator of the member states in the basle committee. we must ask them to inform the ecofin and parliament regularly about the work of the basel committee before we start legislation. we must work together to enable the commission, and the basle committee, to represent europe in globalisation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mrs stevens for her strong performance - also in the interests of the european parliament - and you, commissioner, for the implementation of the un convention. it is an important step in social europe. let me also take this opportunity to touch on a subject that is happening on the margins, namely the attempt to fund a major event for disabled people, the paralympics, next year. we learned yesterday that there are big problems here. i would urge you, madam commissioner, to help and contribute to the fact that we can approve the funds in the budget and in erasmus+ respectively, which can give life to this great and powerful signal for social europe for disabled people all over the world. i thank you in advance for your efforts, dear mrs thyssen.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. 21 bahraini human rights organizations have asked the international community, the united nations, the european parliament, other organizations to speak out against the human rights violations in their homeland, and in that spirit we should accept this credit. on 13 june, women activists were arrested for attempting to travel to geneva for the human rights council meeting. it doesn't just weaken human rights in bahrain when something like this happens. if we ignore this, it will also weaken the united nations and the human rights situation around the world, and we must not remain silent. nabeel rajab was re-arrested after two years in prison and is now facing 13 years in prison. - what for? for his twitter appeal for respect for human rights on the internet. sheikh ali salman is in prison for calling on the citizens of his country to come together, simply come together. two years imprisonment, recently extended to a total of nine years imprisonment without a fair trial. we cannot look away from that, we must not look away from that, and that is why we must accept this credit. but bahrain is also an important partner for the european union - an important economic and military partner in the fight against da'esh. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. the role of the european union has been the subject of considerable discussion in recent days and weeks. we must also make it clear that a sharp, hard line towards bahrain must be taken by the member states of the european union, because they have the competence to do so. we must not only accept this blockade here, but also go home and call on our governments to take strong and decisive action against the bahraini government if it is violating human rights. elie wiesel, the nobel prize winner for human rights, died a few days ago. he said, "we must always choose a side. silence only helps the perpetrator, never the victim. in this sense, we should accept this credit and not be silent.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on this resolution. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the un is not a mere institutional body, but rather a political body, a political body, a political body, a political body, a political body, a political body.
in writing. ‒ there is a lack of ideas and measures to ensure peace. however, support from the united nations should be encouraged. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this proposal lacks concrete steps, ideas and actions. the member states were asked to support the united nations, but it has failed in the area of peacekeeping and peacebuilding. i shall therefore abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for better implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. although the un convention is absolutely worth supporting, i abstain on this report because the situation of integration of people with special needs is handled very differently in the various member states, so that i do not think that harmonization is the right thing to do.
in writing. ‒ i find it worth supporting the fact that the austerity measures in the field of disability policy should be avoided. however, this report is being misused for gender mainstreaming and migration policy. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because it is good in principle to avoid austerity measures in the area of disability policy, but it is not acceptable to support indirectly gender mainstreaming and an expanded migration policy.
in writing. ‒ since some parts of this resolution are still unclear to me, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is directed against the scientifically based findings and recommendations on caffeine by efsa in general and against the marketing of energy drinks in particular. i do not think it is appropriate to throw scientific evidence overboard and to hold an entire industry hostage to a subject on which efsa rarely has a clear opinion. i therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the opc delegation abstained from voting on the objection to health-related data. in 2015, efsa concluded that caffeine is safe for children and adolescents, provided that the limits are respected. this assessment is not sufficiently taken into account in the objection. it should also be noted that the protection of young people is a matter for the member states. the one-sided emphasis on energy drinks in the objection is not understandable: the information is generally applicable to products containing caffeine. health claims alone do not increase consumption. they are intended to provide information to consumers.
in writing. ‒ the commission should produce a nutrition factsheet as early as 2009. this has not happened to this day. the report calls on the commission to act at last. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal because the nutrition facts tables should pay particular attention to the inclusion of sugar in the nutrition facts table.
in writing. ‒ since the report is also an invitation to the commission to finally draw up a nutrition facts table, which should have been drawn up by 2009, and to pay particular attention to the inclusion of sugar in the nutrition facts table, i will support this proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw attention today to a historic day of great importance for europe, a day of european christian solidarity. because on this very day 333 years ago, a european army under the polish king jan sobieski liberated the city of vienna, which was besieged by the ottoman turks, and thus saved central europe from turkish occupation, oppression and islamization, as you have seen and judged in the last centuries in southeastern europe and the balkans. i would like to say a few words today in honour of the heroic defenders of vienna, the brave europeans who horrified vienna, and to pay them the respect and the recognition they deserve.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. this report on the redesign of the energy market is in line with the commission's guidelines and does very well in terms of security of supply and improved regional cooperation. the report will also help to make the european internal market more functional and to bring about a more market-oriented approach. i thank the rapporteur for that. the main points of this report are certainly the improvement of the regulatory environment, especially in terms of contributing an increased share of renewable energy, decentralisation to boost investment and in particular to allow smes better access to the energy grid and also to balance the networks, the position of prosumers a call for a chapter on prosumers in the renewable energy directive was made here for the first time more transparency in price signals, in particular to better attract market prices to consumers, and a more adequate system in the area of regional cooperation, greater interconnectivity and an adequate importance of storage. however, there will be some refinement - which has been briefly mentioned today - particularly in relation to crossborder price zones. i would like to mention the austrian-german price zone, where the german minister for economic affairs in particular is now calling for the introduction of a bottleneck management system for austria and where unilateral action is also possible: this should be avoided as far as possible. this is where the price zone works. but there are also some regulatory details at the micro level that need to be considered. in general, i believe that in the area of capacity mechanisms, it is still unclear in the interpretation of the parliament's final position on strategic grid reserves and market-based mechanisms for capacity provision.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the creation of a european energy union requires a major leap forward: the profound and market-based restructuring of the energy market together with the implementation of existing legislation. i am convinced that we in europe deserve a competitive, transparent and liberal internal market in energy. only in this way can we guarantee the energy supply for european citizens and at the same time create better conditions for consumers. this requires some fundamental changes in the current system: first, we have to make sure that we put a market-based energy system in place. this includes, in particular, the abolition of regulated prices and the creation of better price signals for investment in the energy sector. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. this requires more flexibility and a market-based system. we must realise that the current system of subsidies is outdated and we must find more competitive and adaptable solutions. another important point is regional cooperation between the individual member states. we must encourage the targeted extension of the interconnectors and strengthen regional cooperation. i am convinced that only a comprehensive market transformation will create a successful european internal energy market.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs bresso, for the good and, in my view, very successful cooperation on the report 'eu strategy for the alpine region'. we have produced a successful report and i would like to raise a few points here today. anyone who has read this eusalp report knows that it has an impact on the livelihoods of 80 million people in 48 regions and 7 countries. in my view, there is no room for left-wing green fantasies in a report of this magnitude. the protection and sustainable management of our nature and environment are of course important and desirable; but the people must not be left behind in the pursuit of this goal. the local population can enjoy the beauty of the alpine landscape, but if they cannot find a job or are forced to leave their home region, the price paid for nature and the environment is too high. it is therefore essential to enable the people of these regions to remain in their home countries. and this can only be achieved through support and investment: financial support for the economy, for more jobs, for crossborder transport, for the expansion of the internet, for an economically strong alpine habitat in which future generations should also be able to live and work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is quite welcome that the alpine regions should be economically strengthened, that the rail transport networks are recognised as a factor, and that the protection of the water resources there is also essential. the sensitive alpine region also needs to focus on nature conservation. whether the settlement of predators, i.e. birds of prey and predators, alone safeguards biodiversity, as envisaged in the report, is open to debate from a hunting point of view. it is therefore very important in these strategies that the alpine cultural landscape is cultivated and that the wildlife is also cared for, and of course that those who implement these measures are also taken into account. i am thinking in particular of our farmers and forestry workers, who are ultimately responsible for the preservation of our alpine cultural area. they need fair prices for their excellent products and no handouts. we should also consider them in this strategy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the 11th meeting of the heads of government of the group of 20 major industrialized and emerging economies was held in hangzhou, china, on 4 and 5 september. the focus of the discussions was on building an innovative, strengthened, connected and inclusive global economy. the call was for an action plan to stimulate the weak global economy. this action plan will be urgently needed when we see that investment in europe has still not reached the pre-crisis level, we have an investment gap of 400 billion euros in europe alone and eurostat has now had to reduce european growth for the first half of 2016. the so-called hangzhou consensus is now aimed at achieving more inclusive growth based on better macroeconomic coordination, open trade and innovation. one focus is on digitisation. yes, those are the right priorities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the conference also committed itself to implementing the climate change objectives. china and the united states have certainly been the highlights here, committing themselves to the paris climate targets. this is the highlight, the europeans have been robbed of the show. but that's important too. the assessment of green finance, the fight against tax evasion and, in particular, against non-transparent tax havens, is also positive. a list is due to be published at the g20 summit next year. i hope they make that list; so far, it hasn't worked. let's see what the future brings.
i have to say, madam president, the summits of the g20 are fundamentally problematic. it is a great anticipation of expectations that cannot be met, and it also shows that many of the things we consider to be priorities in europe are not considered to be really important on a global level, especially if we weaken ourselves first, as in the brexit referendum. from a european point of view, in addition to the very superficial and not at all innovative treatment of the economic framework, there are three main shortcomings: migration was only vaguely discussed; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the same applies to the fight against terrorism, where action against money laundering and the illicit trade in arms would be a priority. if we fail, our work will be like sisyphus's. finally, one of the eu's strengths, the digital sector, has been almost completely spared. sustainable growth must address this issue first and foremost.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. in its balanced approach, it makes proposals to the commission that further promote smart specialisation in cohesion policy and ris3 in order to create greater added value for beneficiaries.
in writing. ‒ this report describes the strengthening of the economy through the efficient use of eu funds under ris3. more innovation is needed to create quality jobs. i can only support this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it looks at how the ris3 is strengthening the economy through the efficient use of eu funds. more innovation is needed to create quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ the report sees ris3 as an important tool for addressing the innovation gap and for promoting jobs and growth in europe. it is a very balanced report on and about intelligent specialisation. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ a well-rounded report highlighting the best examples of territorial cooperation to create real added value for european citizens. the measures proposed are innovative but realistically feasible. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ regional brand development and regional identity strengthening are improved, as are risk management and disaster preparedness. that is why i have agreed to this report.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of this report, as it improves regional brand development and strengthening of regional identity, as well as risk management and disaster prevention.
in writing. ‒ the report notes that the ets has become one of the two equivalent objectives of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020. interregional cooperation allows cities and regions to work together on a wide range of problems. the etz also enables increased cooperation in sparsely populated areas. the report is very well-balanced and i therefore agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ the emis committee's interim report has been informed by the technical nature of the subject, does not contain political statements and provides a factual overview of the committee's work. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ a parliamentary inquiry into the emissions scandal is to be launched. the committee's work should be as transparent as possible to the public. that is why i support this committee of inquiry.
in writing. ‒ a parliamentary inquiry is launched into the car industry's emissions scandal. the work of the committee will be made as transparent as possible to the public while maintaining confidentiality. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ this interim report is very uncritical and was unanimously adopted by the committee. that is why i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the waiver of the immunity of my colleague ujhelyi. the facts alleged against him all occurred before or outside his mandate, so that the waiver of his immunity does not prevent him from exercising his mandate.
in writing. ‒ the issue is the waiver of the immunity of mep istván ujhelyi. he was charged with defamation in a criminal proceeding under article 226 (1) of act c/2012 on the hungarian criminal code. the question whether the facts of the case are established is a matter for the court to determine. that is why i support this motion.
in writing. ‒ the issue is the waiver of the immunity of mep istván ujhelyi. he was charged with defamation in a criminal proceeding under article 226 (1) of act c/2012 on the hungarian criminal code. the question whether the facts of the case are established is a matter for the court to determine. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ since the events took place before or outside his term as member of parliament, i have agreed to the request.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the waiver of mr crocetta's immunity. the facts alleged against him all occurred before or outside his mandate, so that the waiver of his immunity does not prevent him from exercising his mandate.
in writing. ‒ the case concerns the waiver of the immunity of rosario crocetta, mep. the question whether the facts of the case are established is a matter for the court to determine. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ an application for waiver of parliamentary immunity was made following a criminal case concerning an administrative offence. i voted for the deprivation of liberty of rosario crocetta and i am in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity until this case is solved and there are no more charges.
in writing. ‒ members of the european parliament may not be subject to any investigation, arrest or prosecution in respect of any statement or vote made in the exercise of their office. immunity is there to protect the freedom of expression of members of parliament. that's why i agreed to the request.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the waiver of the immunity of my colleague mr zarianopoulos. the facts alleged against him all occurred before or outside his mandate, so that the waiver of his immunity does not prevent him from exercising his mandate.
in writing. ‒ the issue is the waiver of the immunity of mep sotirios zarianopoulos. the conditions for this are to be assessed by the court. that is why i support this motion.
in writing. ‒ an application for waiver of parliamentary immunity was made in connection with the prosecution of offences in thessaloniki by the public prosecutor's office. i voted for the deprivation of liberty of sotirios zarianopoulos and i am in favour of the waiver of parliamentary immunity until this case is solved and no further charges are brought.
in writing. ‒ since the events took place before or outside his term as member of parliament, i have agreed to the request.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the present agreement as it merely modifies the existing rules in view of the accession of croatia to the eu and does not contain any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union enlarged its customs union. under the agreement, the commission will approximate customs tariffs by means of an implementing regulation and adjust quotas. i'm all for that.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union enlarged its customs union. under the agreement, the commission will approximate customs tariffs by means of an implementing regulation and adjust quotas. i am in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ the accession of croatia to the eu has also enlarged the customs union. the proposal is a technical agreement which will re-regulate the quotas for certain agricultural products between the eu and china following the accession of croatia. i therefore agreed to the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the present agreement as it merely modifies the existing rules in view of the accession of croatia to the eu and does not contain any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union enlarged its customs union. under the agreement, the commission will approximate customs tariffs by means of an implementing regulation and adjust quotas. i'm all for that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the accession of the republic of croatia will enlarge the european union's customs union. under the agreement, the commission will approximate customs tariffs by means of an implementing regulation and adjust quotas.
in writing. ‒ the accession of croatia to the eu has also enlarged the customs union. the proposal is a technical agreement which will re-regulate the quotas for certain agricultural products between the eu and uruguay following the accession of croatia. i therefore agreed to the proposal.
in writing. ‒ mr lazarou is from cyprus and has been a member of the european court of auditors since 2010. in recent years, mr lazarou has unfortunately failed to provide satisfactory evidence of success. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ mr joão figueiredo is from portugal and has been a judge at the portuguese court of auditors since 2008. before that, he was state secretary for public administration in the portuguese ministry of finance and chief auditor at the portuguese court of auditors. it is not against the candidacy of mr joão figueiredo. that's why i'm voting for the nomination.
in writing. ‒ leo brincat is from malta and is a former minister of the socialist party in government. when another member of the maltese government was linked to the panama papers affair, mr brincat took the defendant's side in a vote of no confidence and voted against his prosecution or an objectification procedure. his candidacy must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. certain rules on the adoption of decisions in the field of trade policy should be recast and adapted to the practice of delegated and implementing acts as laid down in the last interinstitutional agreement.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. it provides for the collection of price statistics not only for non-household customers but also for household customers, in order to enable informed decisions to be taken in the field of european energy policy for the benefit of electricity and gas consumers.
in writing. ‒ ensure the quality of the collection of electricity and natural gas prices in the household sector. these statistics are used to maintain price stability for private final customers. i can only support this.
in writing. ‒ ensure the quality of the collection of electricity and natural gas prices in the household sector. these statistics are used to maintain price stability for private final customers. i can only support this.
in writing. ‒ currently, data on natural gas and electricity prices paid by household final customers are collected on a voluntary basis. the aim of this regulation is to make a voluntary commitment binding. this could help to avoid data collection problems reported by several member states. the collection of price data would continue to be carried out by the competent national authorities. since the adoption of this regulation would prevent a significant drop in the quality of the survey, i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ a very successful report that envisages the opening up of energy markets across borders and further promotes the integration of renewable energies. the rapporteur also confirms that the member states are autonomous in determining their energy mix. it also intends to further the integration of energy markets without at the same time extending the commission's powers. i share the rapporteur's critical view of capacity mechanisms and his call for price signals to reach the end consumer. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ it postulates energy security as a policy objective for the future electricity market. particular emphasis is placed on renewable energy and low-carbon electricity generation. but since nuclear power must not be abandoned at the same time, i cannot support this report.
in writing. ‒ it postulates energy security as a policy objective for the future electricity market. particular emphasis is placed on renewable energy and low-carbon electricity generation. i can only support this.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for greater coordination of hydropower licensing at eu level and harmonisation of the concession regime. the commission is also proposing to allow member states to continue to use nuclear power in the future. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some very innovative ideas to make the energy used for heating and cooling more sustainable. however, it is over-reaching in some areas, which could lead to regulation of the heating and cooling habits of citizens. these include enforcement measures on buildings in rural areas, the abolition of certain categories of furnaces or the requirement for district heating throughout the country. i therefore abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ this report has positive approaches, as it correctly diagnoses the lack of energy efficiency. however, this problem cannot be solved by regulating heating habits. so i'm abstaining from my vote.
in writing. ‒ this report has positive approaches, as it correctly diagnoses the lack of energy efficiency. however, this problem cannot be solved by regulating heating habits. that is why i shall abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ in general, the report contains some innovative ideas. however, i am not in favour of direct intervention in people's heating habits. this includes the requirement for district heating to be area-based and for the phasing out of models of furnaces fuelled with solid fuels. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. it presents some very good and innovative proposals to strengthen the competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises, the backbone of the european economy.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for better conditions for smes. the creation of jobs is a major concern for me. i therefore cannot but support the report.
in writing. ‒ this report creates better conditions for smes. the creation of jobs is a major concern for me. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ the report points out that smes, which provide the majority of jobs in the eu, are the driving force of the european economy. the commission is also calling for simplified and less regulated access to credit for micro-enterprises and start-ups. the report contains good ideas on how to improve and support small and mediumsized enterprises, and i therefore agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. the commission's proposals are aimed at strengthening the alpine region as a cultural, economic, natural and resource area and at preventing theft. these include proposals such as the protection of natural water sources, new investment strategies for greater sustainability and the preservation of biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the alpine region. the focus is on strengthening competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion, but also on making remote areas accessible and protecting the alpine heritage. these points are important to me too, and i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to strengthen the alpine region. the focus is on strengthening competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion, but also on making remote areas accessible and protecting the alpine heritage. these points are important to me too, and i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ the point is that water sources must be protected and must not be privatised at any level. the commission also proposes to disclose the financing of the lyon-turin railway line and to refrain from considering new railway infrastructure until the old one is fully utilised. the proposal has the potential to strengthen the alpine regions with its measures, and i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report. the content of the trust fund is not sufficiently effective to limit investment emigration from africa. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to expand support programmes in africa to stop migration to europe. this is desirable in principle, but i do not agree with the report on some points. i cannot therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to expand support programmes in africa to stop migration to europe. but so far, these projects have been the ones that have caused migration. that is why i do not support this report.
in writing. ‒ the trust fund is not an effective means of ensuring that investment stops outflowing from africa. in most cases, these are the means and measures that are responsible for emigration. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. that is why i rejected the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the report on the creation of labour market conditions to promote a balance between work and private life, because although the report is an important issue for the epp and therefore not to be rejected in itself, unfortunately it also contains many demands that are not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity, such as a renewed call on the commission to propose a maternity directive. family law matters are still better left in the hands of the member states. in addition, the report covers issues that are not directly related to the core theme of the report work/life balance of european workers , which unfortunately makes the report less informative. the report also equates new and flexible models of work with precarious employment conditions. i cannot share this view, particularly as modern, flexible working time models often make it easier to reconcile work and family life.
in writing. ‒ i reject the present report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social dimension.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the report on the creation of labour market conditions to promote a balance between work and private life, because although the report is an important issue for the epp and therefore not to be rejected in itself, unfortunately it also contains many demands that are not compatible with the principle of subsidiarity, such as a renewed call on the commission to propose a maternity directive. family law matters are still better left in the hands of the member states. in addition, the report covers issues that are not directly related to the core theme of the report work/life balance of european workers , which unfortunately makes the report less informative. the report also equates new and flexible models of work with precarious employment conditions. i cannot share this view, particularly as modern, flexible working time models often make it easier to reconcile work and family life.
in writing. ‒ in my opinion, this report is to be regarded negatively, since under the guise of labour market policy, it intervenes in national family and social policies by propagating a new model of society.
in writing. ‒ if i had taken part in the vote, i would have voted against this report, because i believe that it is an intervention in national family and social policy under the guise of labour market policy, by promoting a new model of society.
in writing. ‒ under the guise of labour market policy, national family and social policies are to be intervened in, promoted by the promotion of a new social model. consequently, this proposal must be rejected.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr kukan very warmly, because of course the debate is now focusing very much on the issue of visa-free travel, and that is why i have a question: is visa-free travel designed in such a way that it does not constitute a permanent residence permit or a work permit, and also in such a way that it guarantees the return to turkey after the normal period of time? i think this is something that is being discussed a lot in the public and where we need clarification.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it has been stressed many times today that the situation in turkey with regard to democracy, the rule of law and human rights is extremely worrying - not only the coup attempt but also the exaggerated reactions to it. the situation in south-eastern turkey is particularly problematic, as civil war-like conditions have been prevailing there since the end of 2015. two years ago, many people inside and outside turkey were placing great hopes on the peace process between erdoğan and the pkk. there has been great progress, and it is a tragedy that this process has come to a standstill. the consequences were terrible: deaths and injuries, many lives, destroyed cities, deprived of livelihoods, and now - as a mockery - the removal of elected representatives, mayors and local politicians in the region. i remember my conversation with a mayor of suruç last november, who was also sacked, and who emphasized to me in that conversation how important the peace process in turkey was to him. i hope we can start here again.
i have to say, madam president, the un summit is a very important event, perhaps the most important event of the year. it is in the tradition of decades of work by the united nations unhcr, unrwa, etc. , and it is good that at a time when the world seems to be going off the rails and the movement of refugees is increasing and many people are also feeling insecure because of it, the international community is starting a structured discussion about more coordination and better protection of individual rights. there are two phenomena at the summit. it is about migration - a phenomenon that has always existed, but which has a very special significance in the globalised economy. and it's important that migration is seen not only as a burden, but also as an opportunity for the host countries and for the people. and that is why it must be politically shaped. with the increasing number of refugees, it is also important to pay particular attention to this issue. this is not voluntary migration. and we should try to improve the situation in the refugee camps, to discuss protection zones and how we can organise them, to discuss better funding - and above all, the promised funds should actually arrive. and it's also important that we talk about the organization of resettlement, about quotas, about humanitarian entry corridors and quotas, because that's the best guarantee that people don't drown on the high seas.
madam president, i am totally behind the concept of a holistic approach to migration and the refugee movement, and also the debate on that important issue at the united nations. what i have to observe critically though is the timing. today, we have about 60 million people regarded as refugees. ten years ago that number stood at about 37 million so it has almost doubled in that short timespan. we could have, and should have, acted much sooner. it is crystal clear that action – decisive action – cannot wait any longer. another point which is important to me is that one third of all people fleeing are children. i am counting on you, ms mogherini, to ensure that the debate in new york will concern itself particularly with that tragic aspect. we must not forget, we cannot forget, we cannot afford to forget those most vulnerable.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 september 2016. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr guillaume balas, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on social dumping in the european union (2015/2255 (ini)) (a8-0255/2016).
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as the author of the opinion in the committee on women's rights, i would like to emphasize: social dumping is not limited to the posting of female workers, but has many faces, the ugliest of which is black labour. women are particularly affected in this area - in the care sector, in households, etc. so many companies do not follow non-binding and voluntary guidelines. that's why we need this blacklist - a blacklist for the black sheep of the industry, those who misbehave and break the law. companies that pay their people fairly, register properly, provide adequate housing, stand to gain. why not give credit to those good companies that play by the rules and then protect the black sheep accordingly? it can't be. the question is of course addressed to all the groups, particularly those who are reluctant to blacklist and to fight the ambitious letterbox companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the postal services.
- i'm not sure. i saw you wanted a blue card for your colleague. but you have had time to speak, and since we are very short on time, i will not give a blue card to someone who has already had time to speak in this debate. i beg your understanding.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 september 2016. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council statement on the position of the council on the draft general budget for the financial year 2017 (2016/2768 ((rsp)). i would point out to members that this debate is not a catch-the-eye procedure and that no blue cards will be accepted. i now bid farewell to commissioner thyssen, and mrs georgieva, the vice-president of the commission, is not here yet. but the first speaker on the list is mr vazil hudák, minister for the council. that means i'll give you the floor first.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european commission, even today, in the person of its president, describes its situation as existential. i would go so far as to say it's disastrous. the british have said: goodbye, we are leaving this european union. today or this week the poles are to be condemned by a majority decision of this house. the call for the exclusion of the hungarians is coming from luxembourg. i can only say how absurd is what is manifesting here? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. today, with the course of centralization, much has changed. from a wrong monetary policy with the euro to refugee policy, strife and hatred have spread across this continent. i appeal to you: understand the signs of the british referendum correctly! the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome.
i have to say, madam president, the union is not in a good state, but that cannot be a cause for gloating. some of my colleagues can't stop celebrating their schadenfreude here. we were not elected to be destructive. our job is to solve problems. we must see the difficulties as challenges. europe has always grown when it has overcome its difficulties. but we should not only look at the obvious problems - the refugee crisis, the recession, unemployment, the institutional crisis - but we should also look ahead. i am very pleased, mr president juncker, that you have given a wide margin to the shaping of the digital future. the digital future can only be tackled in europe, and the digital single market is our most important project it will secure jobs. we have also seen in the data protection package that we as europeans can set the global standards.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. president juncker, you have met our expectations with your description of the situation and your concrete action plan, because you have mentioned the urgencies by name. our problem is the way some politicians deal with global challenges, with people's concerns and fears and with the common decisions of the european union, the insincerity of many state offices towards citizens out of cowardice - we are dealing with the sentiments instead of kneeling before them - and the populism that leads to nationalism and the loss of credibility of the european union. the summit in bratislava must be a signal for action in solidarity. it must mean a change of heart. now we must make a push across all the member states of the european union: for the security and defence union, for more tax justice, for doubling the investment plan, for the digital single market, for the distribution of refugees, for the protection of the external border and for a common migration and asylum policy.
in writing. ‒ conclusion of a protocol to the agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the swiss confederation, of the other, on the free movement of persons with regard to the admission of the republic of croatia: i have assessed this draft decision negatively.
in writing. ‒ i would have abstained in the vote on the protocol to the ec/switzerland agreement on freedom of movement in connection with the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ protocol iii would mean that swiss citizens would have to be granted freedom of movement. however, since the majority of the swiss population voted against mass immigration in 2014, i rejected this draft resolution.
in writing. ‒ in this context, the european union's way of working is cited as a reason for seeking approval for the establishment of a tripartite social summit. the eu is acquiring more powers through this social summit. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ if i had been able to vote on the tripartite social summit on growth and employment, i would have abstained.
in writing. ‒ in this context, the european union's way of working is cited as a reason for seeking approval for the establishment of a tripartite social summit. the european council is composed of the european social partners, the european commission and the trio of presidencies. however, since the eu is acquiring more powers through this social summit, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. the aim of the recommendation is to establish a uniform and coherent legal framework to ensure a uniform level of safety for inland waterway vessels. the negotiating teams of the ep and the council also agreed on the dynamic adaptation of technical standards. this will be done by means of the adoption of delegated acts.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to create a uniform and coherent framework for inland waterway transport. this will increase security. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation (adopting the council position unchanged) aims to create a uniform and coherent framework to ensure a uniform level of safety for inland waterway vessels. the negotiating teams of the ep and the council also agreed on the dynamic adaptation of technical standards, which will be achieved through the adoption of delegated acts. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ today the spd delegation voted against the eu's economic partnership agreement with the member states of the southern african development community (sadc-wpa). the real aim of such agreements should be to grant african countries preferential access to the european market. the main thrust of this agreement is not the support and development opportunities of african countries, but the very liberal economic agenda and various special interests. we do not see sadc as being in line with our social democratic objectives in the areas of development, climate change and migration.
in writing. ‒ today, the spd-eu delegation voted against the eu's economic partnership agreement with the member states of the southern african development community (sadc-wpa group). the real aim of such agreements should be to grant african countries preferential access to the european market. the main thrust of this agreement is not the support and development aid to african countries, but the very liberal economic agenda and the european commission's own interests. we do not see sadc as being in line with our social democratic objectives in the areas of development, climate change and migration.
in writing. ‒ while the report contains some justifiable approaches, it does not establish a link between the eu's economic accommodation and the return of migrants by the countries concerned. it should also be noted that the merger of economically extremely different states can lead to significant conflicts between the objectives and interests of these states. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ while the report makes sensible proposals, there is no link between the eu's economic response and the readmission of migrants by the sadc epa states. i cannot therefore agree with this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ if i had participated in the votes, i would have voted against this report. the report makes some sensible proposals, but there is no link between the eu's economic accommodation and the readmission of migrants by sadc epa states.
in writing. ‒ today the spd delegation voted against the eu's economic partnership agreement with the member states of the southern african development community (sadc-wpa). the real aim of such agreements should be to grant african countries preferential access to the european market. the main thrust of this agreement is not the support and development aid to african countries, but the very liberal economic agenda and the european commission's own interests. we do not see sadc as being in line with our social democratic objectives in the areas of development, climate change and migration.
in writing. ‒ while the report contains some justifiable approaches, it does not make a link between the eu's economic response and the take-back of migrants by the countries concerned. in addition, the merger of economically extremely different states (south africa, angola, lesotho, etc.) would lead to significant conflicts of interest. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on this resolution. for most small fisheries there are hardly any improvements or measures that would be practical.
in writing. ‒ if i had been able to vote on the agreement on the implementation of the convention on work in the fisheries sector, i would have abstained.
in writing. ‒ this resolution notes that, in view of the high rates of accidents, working hours and occupational diseases, workers in the fisheries sector need special protection. that's why i agreed to the request.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the joint motion for a resolution. poland has a democratically legitimised government which must not be subjected to unbridled criticism from the european side. such behaviour will only lead to further antagonisms and will not enhance the eu in poland. a better approach would be to approach each other diplomatically.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to prevent any interference with poland's sovereignty. i can only support this, because the commission is the executive body of the union and not a political body.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to legitimize an interference in poland's sovereignty. i would have voted against this because the commission is the executive body of the union and not a political body.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution stresses that interference in national affairs, which fall exclusively within the competence of a member state, is unjustified. the principle of identity and national sovereignty is non-negotiable. it is also noted that the commission is not a political body but an executive body. that's why i agreed to the request.
in writing. - i will abstain on this report. it deals with eu-tunisia relations at various levels. the emphasis is on building democracy and civil society in the country, which will be supported by eu financial assistance, among other means. in the long term, this is certainly worth supporting, as is the eu's intention to promote the fight against corruption and terrorism in tunisia in particular. however, the promotion of mobility partnerships and visa facilitation, which at least for the time being is a form of migration facilitation, is to be rejected.
in writing. ‒ building democracy and civil society in tunisia is important, but it is being achieved by the wrong means. financial support, mobility partnerships and visa facilitation are not suitable for combating terrorism. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ building democracy and civil society in tunisia is the right thing to do, but it is the wrong way to do it. financial support, mobility partnerships and visa facilitation are not suitable for combating terrorism. i would have voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ since this report refers to a mobility partnership and visa facilitation, i rejected it.
in writing. ‒ the austrian epp delegation voted in favour of the g. balas own-initiative report on social dumping in the european union, as social dumping is unfortunately a reality in europe which has a negative impact on the development of the european labour market. the member states and the institutions are called upon to identify and combat the three main forms of social dumping, namely economic, financial and social. there must be no class differences in europe based on the origin of workers and reflected in pay and social benefits.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. the harmonization of the internal market has unfortunately not had the same positive impact on workers' rights. the rapporteur notes that companies and european workers are competing with each other, but they do not have the same social obligations or the same social rights. the report examines social dumping and its consequences (unfair competition, distortions of competition, damage to the social system, etc.) in the major economic sectors of the union. i support his suggestions on how to remedy such situations, for example by means of central registers and uniform documents.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the strengthening of the position of workers. the fight against social dumping is a necessary step in this direction. i can only support this.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the strengthening of the position of workers. the fight against social dumping is a necessary step in this direction. i would have supported this.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with social dumping and its consequences. it also calls for the fight against the pseudo-independence which in turn distorts competition. the commission has also proposed that companies which violate labour and social legislation be registered. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. in my view, credit risk must be included in the valuation of priips, otherwise speculation is encouraged, which has already brought the european economy close to collapse.
in writing. ‒ this resolution improves investor protection for retail investors by taking credit risk into account in the calculation of the risk classification of insurance products. i'm all for that.
in writing. ‒ this report improves investor protection for retail investors by taking credit risk into account in the calculation of the risk classification of insurance products. i would have voted for this report too.
in writing. ‒ this resolution stresses that consumer information on investment products must be comparable in order to promote a level playing field in the market. the exclusion of credit risk from the calculation of the risk classification of insurance products would be tantamount to misleading investors. as credit risk should therefore be included in the risk assessment of priips, i have agreed to the request.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, you have received a lot of praise for your work. i want to be fully involved. but there was also praise, which irritated me very much, from national finance ministers. several congratulated you and then immediately reported that they would like some of the billions that make up the judgment. this can only be populism or a complete misunderstanding, because the competition law has not found that taxpayers or national budgets are disadvantaged by too little taxation, but that other companies are disadvantaged in their competition if apple pays too little tax. that's what this verdict says. the verdict was right, but we should think about the other side. if national finance ministers now suddenly want more money, then we as the european parliament should urge you as the commission to finally have a common european tax base, to have cooperation on tax matters rather than competition between these countries. if competition law is the lever to keep pointing this out, then i am happy and pleased about that and we should continue in that respect. it is clear again today that there is a split in parliament: those on the right who want national taxes and those on the left who want cooperation. we're offering the support.
i have to say, madam president, i am glad and relieved that the european commission has had this wide-ranging competence in aid law since 1957. it is also thanks to this wide-ranging expertise that we now have a satisfactory result from their side. the apple decision of the european commission is one: it's long overdue, and it's right, of course. and i wish you success in your future work, because this is not just an irish case, but there are many, many others that are also on the way. for decades, multinational corporations like apple, like amazon, like starbucks and so on and so forth, have shifted their profits to low-tax states or have artificially minimized them with the help of patent boxes. it is not just the global corporations but the governments themselves who ultimately participate in these tax treaties. and in that sense it is incomprehensible, even sickening, that ireland does not want the billions owed back. what we need now is a global taxation of corporations, with companies reporting their activities, their profits, their costs per country. the group profit and thus the taxes due should be distributed among the individual countries. the problem of profit shifting would be over. because profits should be taxed wherever they are earned.
in writing. the eu's national budgets lose €70 billion a year to tax avoidance by multinational companies. the fight against tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning is therefore a priority. at european level, concrete measures have already been taken to tax profits where the economic activity actually takes place. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the tax system, including measures to increase transparency, increase the efficiency of the tax system and make the tax system fairer, thereby ensuring fair competition between multinational and smaller companies. these measures are in line with the oecd's 15-point action plan on combating profit shortening and profit shifting, the so-called beps initiative. the g20 is also giving priority to this issue, and the oecd has recently been asked to draw up a uniform list of all tax havens by next year. these steps signal the right course of action. the eu commission's decision to declare a tax agreement between the irish government and the us company apple as illegal aid with retroactive effect from 2003 and to demand a tax rebate of eur 13 billion poses a potential threat to trade relations between europe and the us. of course, tax agreements must be subject to strict control by national tax authorities. of course europe must act against corporate tax evasion. but not at the expense of legal and planning certainty.
the commission has already done so. europe has not faced such a large number of refugees for decades, and it is important that we provide assistance to those seeking protection, in accordance with international standards and in the good tradition of european solidarity. but to do this effectively, we also need clear rules, efficient structures and regular procedures. this is lacking in many places, not just at european level. the situation is extremely confusing, especially in the member states, and it is causing many people to be uncertain. there is a lack of overview and transparency, but also of consistency. if europe is to meet its obligations, the appropriate administrative arrangements must be made. but above all, people want to know what they're in for, what's really going on. the regulation on a travel document for illegally staying third-country nationals is an important measure in this context. such a document is necessary to give credibility to the european asylum procedure. it shall be open to all persons who can prove grounds for asylum; this also means that the negative asylum decision does not give rise to a right of residence. the resulting deportations must be in accordance with human rights law. they need a clear legal basis. and this regulation is an important part of such a legal basis because this travel document provides for appropriate security measures and uniform standards for return and is also recognised by the countries that sign the relevant return agreements.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, ska keller, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. and i think we did something good. as we all know, the name of our debate today is not really appropriate, because we are actually discussing the first part of the famous eu-turkey refugee deal. the commission wants to apply the resettlement quotas agreed for the one-to-one scheme between turkey and greece, and that is where i see the problem. the resettlement of refugees must not, in my view, be carried out at the expense of the resettlement quotas already decided upon. because we need both. the member states which have agreed to the relocation initiative must finally fulfil the obligations which have been created by it, as the commissioner has quite rightly called for. this is necessary not only to protect refugees but also to support border states. i would like to repeat what jean-claude juncker said today and what commissioner avramopoulos said just now, namely that solidarity is the basic principle of a functioning partnership. so far, the number of people relocated from greece and italy, as we have heard, is simply too low. the human suffering that is unnecessarily caused or prolonged by this may serve as a deterrent to some, but this is not the way eu policy should be conducted. we cannot operate on the back of fundamental and human rights as the model democracy that we all hope to be. if what has been achieved so far is the implementation of common solutions in the field of refugee policy, then we need much more support for the urgently needed common eu asylum and migration policy. in conclusion, i have a question for the representatives of the people's party and the family party. what is your view on the refugee policy with regard to the otherwise highly valued family and thus family reunification?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it was a year ago that there was a heated debate in this house on the distribution of refugees already in the eu. we talked about relocation, about hotspots. a large number of member states were then ready to do their part. it's been a year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. thousands of people are still stuck in italy, greece, somewhere in between on the balkan route. they fall into the hands of criminal smugglers who smuggle them across the internal european border fence for a lot of money. the remainder are those who cannot afford it, especially children, the elderly and the infirm. i visited several camps in northern greece in august, and i can't get these images out of my head. conditions are catastrophic. people are desperate, and the situation is explosive. i don't want to imagine what it's gonna be like in the winter. we must put an end to this situation in the interests of the people who do not deserve it, in the interests of security and stability and above all in the interests of greece. the solidarity of the greek people is exemplary, but it must also be recognized by other member states. the member states must therefore finally stop hesitating and honour their commitments. but administrative obstacles must also be overcome, often not because of a lack of will but because of different administrative cultures. this shows once again the urgent need to promote the europeanisation of the asylum system. there is no way around creating legal entry opportunities. that is the great challenge we have.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are now discussing the report on the financing of small and mediumsized enterprises in the context of the capital markets union, and i would urge the house to ensure that the planned capital markets union in europe is also specifically targeted at smes. the aim is to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain financing on the capital market. we want nothing less than to put the capital markets in the european union at the service of the real economy. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and midcaps are an essential part of the eu economy. this is why access to finance for smes has been on the political agenda for a long time and why we need to support and disseminate it. smes in the eu are far from uniform. they differ in terms of business model, size, stage of development, financial structure and legal form. access to finance for smes needs to be supported throughout their life cycle. in this context, bank loans continue to be an important source of finance for smes and we therefore call for the current facilitation for banks to lend to smes to be extended and expanded. i myself, in the 2013 banking regulation, made sure that the opportunity for more favourable conditions for smes was created, and we demand that this supporting factor be extended and expanded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a third point highlighted in this 41-page report is the question of the creation of a one-stop shop in each member state. the procedures for setting up a business must finally be simplified throughout europe, and every business in every member state must be able to complete all the formalities from incorporation to financing in one go. another requirement of the house is the creation of a central database where smes can register their projects and the amount of funding they receive. the aim is to make it easier to get in touch with investors throughout europe. and my fifth demand, which we have now taken up at the beginning of the debate, is the creation of programmes and projects to increase financial literacy among young people and young entrepreneurs. only those who have the necessary economic foundations have the courage to venture out and try alternative financing options, to take risks. and i ask you: we propose here in these 41 pages that the capital markets union should focus on sme financing, that it should remain a priority. we must not throw out the child with the bath, but we must expand credit financing to new financing options and make it easier to start a business through the one-stop shop. i ask the house to support this report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the debate - and especially the number of speakers at that time - showed how important the issues of strengthening the financing of small and mediumsized enterprises are to us. i do not need to mention again the importance of access to finance for the internal market, for growth and employment. i would like to thank all the colleagues who took part in the debate and the shadow rapporteurs who contributed to the preparation of this report. but i would also point out that the debate here has focused on the issue of funding and diversifying the sources of finance for smes in a capital markets union, rather than the entire economy. we must make the capital markets union, in our view, a financing union of the real economy, and we must not only facilitate but also expand the supply of capital to smes. this of course includes the expansion of the efsi, and i would say that without expansion, the sme window has been successful so far. this includes the erasmus programme for small and mediumsized enterprises, for young entrepreneurs and smes, the implementation of the small business act and the single market act, and of course the europeanisation of the implementation of the basel criteria, because the application of basel cannot take place in europe as it does in the united states, where 80% of sme financing is financed by credit. we will therefore never be finished, but this report is an important step towards shaping the capital markets union as a financing union for the real economy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on behalf of the european people's party, i expressly support the request of the committee on employment and social affairs, as explained by our chairman, mr handel. i would like to begin by saying that the commission has already been active in this area and will continue to be active in this area with the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the minimum wage is not exceeded. however, the mere establishment of a minimum income is not enough to counteract the slide into poverty and social exclusion. what is needed, moreover, are active approaches that make re-entry and entry into employment attractive, and a process that makes lifelong learning mandatory to prevent inadequate vocational training and thus promote a path out of long-term unemployment. i am convinced that all investments in supporting jobseekers in europe are well-spent money. the issue of minimum income must be dealt with comprehensively. i would also like to draw attention to the pension situation in europe. the urgent point is that, due to the lack of minimum pension schemes, 20% of retired people in europe live in poverty. this is especially true of women. here too, the pressure exerted by the commission is absolutely useful, not least through the recommendations of the european semester. and i would like to ask the commission, and you too, commissioner, to use the recommendations of the european semester not only as a recommendation but also as a hard tool.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mrs harkin, for the extremely constructive, good and purposeful cooperation. for us greens, the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important social and labour market policy instrument to steer when people lose their jobs and are at risk of falling into poverty as a result of the effects of globalisation or the economic crisis. it is also one of the few instruments with which the eu can directly help its citizens, where the focus is not on the economy but on people - as befits a social union such as the greens are striving for. we greens will therefore support this report and expressly welcome the fact that a gender impact assessment has been included in the report, so that women and men can benefit equally from the egf in the short and long term. and of course the fund must not be a solution to misguided trade policy, nor a solution to wrong corporate strategies, nor a substitute for preventive measures, as my predecessor jean-paul denanot quite rightly said. in any case, the egf also needs major reforms. for example, the egf should really be available to all workers in all member states, not just the best informed, not just those in the big companies. the quality of jobs should also be given increasing priority and loopholes for member states should be closed, as has already been mentioned. the egf should not be used to finance activities which are to be borne by the member states in the context of labour market and social policy. i also believe that future appointments to the european court of auditors should be made exclusively by women until a reasonable gender balance is achieved.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the events in the philippines are extremely worrying. we are witnessing the self-destruction of a state which has been respected by the international community. this is directly related to the newly elected president. the successful democratization efforts that began after the fall of dictator marcos are in danger of being destroyed. the press and freedom of expression are being restricted, the introduction of the death penalty is being prepared, and the rule of law is being completely undermined in the fight against drug crime. drug dealers and addicts are killed by death squads. this is happening under the eyes and with the encouragement of the authorities. often, the mere suspicion is enough to get you killed. this is worrying, extremely worrying, and it is to be feared that this systematic undermining of human rights and the rule of law is creeping into philippine society and destroying the state. our resolution calls on the philippine government to take a hard look at these dangerous developments, to abandon the death penalty, to investigate the crimes and to move towards a sensible and adequate fight against drug crime, because drug crime is indeed a problem that cannot be fought with such methods.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not when the corrupt president mugabe of today took power in zimbabwe in the early 1980s, he was still hailed by the left as a great freedom fighter, but he did not create prosperity, democracy and equality, but destroyed these values in the once rich zimbabwe-rhodesia. racial expropriation, expulsion, slaughter of white farmers, and patronage and corruption have turned this once-rich country into one of the poorest economies in the world. and now the european union is supporting mugabe and his zanu party with 234 million euros in development aid, and doing so without demanding anything in return, without demanding respect for human rights, without demanding the return of the expropriated farms, and above all without demanding the fight against corruption. and i'm beginning to wonder if we're still in our right minds.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the issue of returns and offers solutions to simplify the return processes of third-country nationals once readmission agreements have been concluded with the countries of origin. the regulation aims to harmonise the format and technical specifications. i agree with this approach and with this report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the simplification of the return process for third-country nationals, provided that readmission agreements have been concluded with the countries of origin. however, it is a relativisation of the present situation. so i'm abstaining from my vote.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the question of simplifying the return process for third-country nationals, as the conclusion of readmission agreements with the countries of origin would put the present situation in perspective.
in writing. ‒ the report deals only with the return of third-country nationals and aims to simplify the return process if readmission agreements have been concluded with the countries of origin. the regulation is intended to harmonise the format and technical specifications, but this will not change the problem of illegal migration to europe. the document only adds to the administrative burden, since it would also have to be written in the language of the country of origin of the person to be expelled. it is also not used to verify personal data and thus continues to allow for false statements. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report is moving in the right direction, bringing more and clearer information to consumers and clarity on issues of liability on the part of issuers. in principle, the approach is a step forward towards harmonisation, while at the same time creating flexibility in areas where it is needed. i therefore agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ the report provides more and clearer information for the consumer. it also clarifies issues of liability on the part of issuers. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ the report is moving in the right direction, bringing more and, above all, clearer information to consumers and clarifying issues of liability on the part of issuers. in principle, the approach is a step forward in ensuring uniformity, while at the same time creating flexibility where it is needed. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the redistribution of thousands of migrants from greece and italy to the other member states, but does not address the general problems of the migration crisis and possible solutions to tackle the reasons for flight. it also proposes new ways for migrants to enter the union, by simplifying the issuing of visas on humanitarian grounds. i therefore do not agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ the asylum crisis in italy and greece is reported here. however, as a consequence of the status quo, further measures are being taken to encourage migration. i reject that.
in writing. ‒ i strongly oppose this report, as it calls for further measures to be taken to encourage migration in the context of the asylum crisis in italy and greece.
in writing. ‒ this report is just another step in the wrong direction on the refugee issue. the situation is not changed by the relocation of 40,000 and another 120,000 persons from greece and italy to the other member states. the eu is also committed to creating more safe and legal pathways for entry into the eu and to increasing the number of visas issued on humanitarian grounds. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's legislative resolution on supplementing the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. the council has unfortunately bypassed parliament in adopting the directive, leaving out some important aspects of improving labour market conditions, such as improving training provision and the comparability of qualifications in accordance with the eqf.
in writing. ‒ while this report contains many positive points which have long been implemented in austria, it goes far beyond employment policy measures. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. for these reasons i cannot agree to this report.
in writing. ‒ the report should create the conditions for higher employment rates. instead, the eu is trying to take on more powers and is interfering with the regulatory powers of the member states. i am firmly against this.
in writing. ‒ the report is initially positive on the creation of a framework for higher employment rates. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i reject that.
in writing. the amendment criticises the council's lack of involvement of parliament in the legislative process. it says the eu needs 'comprehensive policies' to combat unemployment and poverty. the amendments therefore call for equality between men and women in the labour market, which in my view will only lead to the debate on women's quotas again. in addition, there is to be increased inclusion in the labour market of discriminated groups, including legal immigrants, although (in austria) the unemployment of the autochthonous population is already high enough. the report must therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution contains very correct approaches to environmental protection, but at the same time establishes an insufficiently substantiated link between trophy hunting and species extinction. that is why i shall abstain on this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ paper-based communication is declining across europe. on the other hand, the number of parcels has increased significantly and the turnover from parcel and express delivery accounts on average for more than half of the total revenue of postal service providers. national regulatory authorities are therefore invited to adapt the extension of their tasks under the new regulation to the parcel market. there is nothing to oppose this call, since the establishment of minimum standards is beneficial for all operators and thus for the whole industry . i therefore agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ it is reported that competition in the letter market is severely underdeveloped. increased competition would reduce prices to the final customer, similar to the parcel market. i'm all for that.
in writing. ‒ according to this report, the market for mail is very underdeveloped. accordingly, increased competition would reduce prices to the final customer. i'm all for that.
in writing. ‒ the report finds that paper-based communications are declining across europe, but the number of packets and parcels is rising sharply. the turnover from parcel and express delivery accounts on average for more than half of the total revenue of postal service providers. on the other hand, competition in the letter market is very underdeveloped. the report argues that the postal sector has suffered a net loss of jobs, and that a balance must be struck between free competition and consumer needs. that is why i agreed to the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the report explored the future challenges, financing needs and conditions from the perspective of smes in the member states. the report also points to the need for a differentiated and tailor-made approach to regulation, the measures to be supported (e.g. tax incentives) and the financing options. i agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ this is about access to finance for smes. the report recognises the challenges associated with a differentiated and tailor-made approach to regulation. national differences are also taken into account. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ support smes in their funding horizons, taking into account national economic disparities. i think that is absolutely worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses the challenges of the financing needs and conditions of smes in different member states and regions. the need for a differentiated and tailor-made approach to regulation, the measures to be supported (e.g. tax incentives) and the financing options is highlighted. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by mr krasnodębski on methods for maximising the potential of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) to create jobs, as it is of the utmost importance for the european labour market and the development of the european economy to promote and support the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. the report contains a number of proposals which deserve support, such as the evaluation and reduction of bureaucratic obstacles in the member states or the promotion of modern and flexible working time models and forms of work.
in writing. ‒ the report is an attempt to improve the framework conditions for smes. in particular, it aims to improve job creation across europe. i therefore agree with the report.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to improve the conditions for job creation. it is true that this potential needs to be better exploited. so i can only support this.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to improve the conditions for job creation by smes. i have abstained on this report because not all financial and economic measures are efficient.
in writing. ‒ the report points out that pseudo-independence cannot be seen as contributing to the growing number of micro-enterprises and points to the new social problems arising from the fact that many pseudo-independent people are still hardly insured. i have supported the report because it also seeks to improve the potential of smes for job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by mr r. weber on the application of council directive 2000/78/ec of 27 november 2000 establishing a general framework for the implementation of equal treatment in employment and occupation, as i consider the evaluation and permanent implementation of the employment equality directive to be of particular importance for the social integration of europe. the owninitiative report calls for the removal of social and economic obstacles to equal treatment and the elimination of discrimination on grounds of religion and belief, age, disability, sexual orientation, sex or ethnic origin.
in writing. ‒ the directive on ensuring a more balanced representation of women and men among non-executive directors/supervisory board members of listed companies has achieved a great deal. the report now seeks to advance the eu's horizontal anti-discrimination directive, which would, however, violate the principle of subsidiarity and profoundly interfere with the competences of individual member states. i therefore reject this report.
in writing. ‒ this report claims to deal with competition conditions in terms of employment and occupational equality, but in fact it is intended to deal with social policy. this is to be rejected.
in writing. ‒ under the guise of improving the conditions of competition in terms of equality in employment and occupation, social policy is actually being pursued. this is to be rejected.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for equality for all people in the workplace. but in reality, they are nothing but social politics. among other things, employers who restrict religious symbols are in violation of international human rights standards. in principle, any kind of discrimination is to be deplored. but if on the one hand an employer who prohibits religious symbols violates human rights norms, and on the other hand there are many companies that no longer offer pork in canteens out of respect/reverence for other religions, this is no longer about equality, but about submission to other cultures. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr harkin's own-initiative report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014, as it clearly identifies the strengths and weaknesses of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the fund is intended to use european union funds to support workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. of course, the use of money and its effects must be carefully evaluated. therefore, it is justified to request those member states which have received support from the egf to make publicly available all data and assessments on the cases concerned, accompanied by an impact assessment.
in writing. ‒ the report is a positive approach to tackling the core european issue of effective employment policies. the rapporteur presents a critical and detailed account of the way in which funds have been used so far. the rapporteur also calls for the fund's resources to be increased, if necessary, by the member states, but at the same time for them to be used more efficiently and more effectively. i agree with this request and with the report for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ this report has good ideas on job creation measures, but there is a possibility of increasing national funding for the fund. that's why i'm abstaining.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained on this report because, while it has good approaches to employment and job creation, it also calls for an increase in national funding for the fund.
in writing. ‒ the report is positive in its approach, as it deals with employment measures. the waste of resources is also criticised. the commission is also proposing to increase the fund's resources by the member states and to consider support for people with a migrant background. that is why i abstained.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. access to formal education is one of the most important aspects of the refugee crisis, and we have neglected it for far too long. i am pleased with this debate and the progress that is obviously being made. the situation is indeed shocking. on one of my visits to the camp, a young man, 14 or 15 years old, accompanied me, explained the situation to me, and i then asked him where he had learned english. his answer was: i found a dictionary and memorized it. i will never forget that young man's answer! and i ask you, isn't it a scandal that this man never had a chance to go to school? and what will he be in one, two, three years if he continues to be denied access to education?
the commission has already done so. i would like to point out once again, and i think it is important to emphasize, that today's debate is not a finger pointing at our european forest owners, who have been taking care of our green treasure for generations with sustainable forest management. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal logging. every two seconds, an area of forest the size of a football field is illegally cleared worldwide, and reliable data on illegal logging in third countries remains very difficult to obtain. however, it is estimated that €1.2 billion worth of illegal timber is sold in the european union each year. the economic damage to the timber producing countries is therefore also enormous. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively and that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively. ladies and gentlemen, we have a responsibility here for future generations, because, in addition to the economic damage, illegal logging is also a massive intrusion into our global ecosystem. flegt is the european union's answer to the global problem. the concept is innovative and absolutely correct. the court of auditors' special report, however, shows massive implementation deficits. there is a great need for explanation here: what concepts does the commission have in this area? but how can we encourage reforms in the partner countries? how can we show our support? and is there really a forward-looking strategy here? as rapporteur for the voluntary partnership agreements with indonesia, liberia and central africa, i would also like to ask the commission for a progress report on the implementation of these agreements.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many positive points have been made today and i would like to add my voice to those: that access to the legal system should not be dependent on ability to pay, that it should not be hampered by national borders and that procedures should be subject to uniform standards as far as possible. the european parliament has made substantial improvements in this area. in times when the european house is facing violent storms and when the impression is given that nothing is working anymore, this is a positive sign a signal that things are going well and that cooperation between the institutions can work if the will is there. we should also take this example as a model for other areas and we should be particularly pleased that the common area of security, freedom and justice, a project as important as the internal market, is now undergoing a major upgrade.
in writing. ‒ this is the paris agreement (cop 21). this agreement is supposed to be about protecting our climate and our environment, but this agreement is not a step in the right direction and is not compatible with my understanding of climate protection. nuclear energy is considered to be a proven means of achieving emission reduction targets. the corporate europe observatory (ceo) study also shows that the same global players at the cop 21 negotiating table were also supporting ttip and ceta. that is why i rejected this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it favours countries that rely on nuclear energy. if the report had contained binding targets for the share of renewable energy, my decision would have been different. unfortunately, austria has always been considered, even though we produce much cleaner than many other countries.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement (cop 21) on climate protection is not a step in the right direction and is incompatible with our policy for several reasons. for example, under this agreement, nuclear energy is considered a proven means of achieving emission reduction targets due to its low co2 emissions, while large multinational corporations such as monsanto were waiting in the negotiations to propose genetically modified seeds as a climate-friendly alternative to conventional farming. furthermore, a study by the corporate europe observatory (ceo) showed that the same global big players at the cop21 negotiating table who also support ttip and ceta. climate change must not be at the expense of the environment or our health, which is why i did not agree to this report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of mobilising the solidarity fund for greece. the aid to the victims of the earthquake must be given, which is a top priority for a country that is already suffering economically and from the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the greek region of the ionian islands was struck by an earthquake measuring 6.1 on the richter scale. this solidarity fund was set up for such tragedies. i therefore support the report and therefore support the aid for the reconstruction of the region which is structurally weak.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need immediate help for greece after the earthquake.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance to greece following a natural disaster (earthquake of magnitude 6.1 on the richter scale) in the region of the ionian islands. the solidarity fund was set up for just such purposes and is intended to provide greece with assistance totalling eur 1.65 million to help the structurally weak region to rebuild. i think that is a sensible measure and i have therefore agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the microsoft workers have been dragged into unemployment through no fault of their own and training is needed to reintegrate them into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ adapting to globalisation is a major challenge. this is why the european globalisation adjustment fund exists, among other things. this fund supports dismissed workers. in this particular case, the fund is being used to benefit workers in finland. these were laid off at microsoft and some of the supplier companies. i consider it my duty to support these workers.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a budgetary instrument, the globalisation adjustment fund, which provides financial support to workers affected by the far-reaching global structural changes in the world trade pattern. the fund is working precisely where society needs it most, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to support workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns as a result of globalisation. the proposal is to use the fund to help workers in finland who have been made redundant by microsoft and its suppliers. i think that these measures are useful and i therefore agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. ericsson's workers have been dragged into unemployment through no fault of their own and training is needed to reintegrate them into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ again, this is about supporting workers who have been made redundant by globalisation. the european globalisation adjustment fund is to provide financial support for workers made redundant in sweden. the telephone company (ag in sweden) had to lay off employees. i am concerned about the financial support of these workers.
in writing. ‒ the european union has a budgetary instrument, the european globalisation adjustment fund, which provides financial support to workers affected by the far-reaching global structural changes in the world trade pattern. the fund is working precisely where society needs it most, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to support workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns as a result of globalisation. the proposal is to use the fund to help workers in sweden who have been made redundant by telekom aktiebolaget lm ericsson. i think that these measures are useful and i therefore agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not excluded from the decision on the matter.
in writing. ‒ this application concerns the waiver of the immunity of mr giorgos grammatikakis. it seems to have taken the greek legal system some twenty years to bring a case. therefore, i reject the request.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis, as the prosecution sought clearly has no connection with giorgos grammatikakis' status as a member of the european parliament, but refers to his former position as rector of the senate of the university of crete.
in writing. ‒ the request for the waiver of immunity was made only some twenty years after the events took place and the greek legal system was not able to initiate a procedure against giorgos grammatikakis during that period. that is why i did not agree to the report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report on legal aid for suspects and accused persons in the union. while there are some centralizing elements in this report, every citizen, regardless of where he is tried in the eu, should have the same opportunities and safeguards as in his home country.
in writing. ‒ the basic intention behind this report, to ensure a certain minimum standard of rule of law within the union, is understandable. however, i see little need for action here; as long as the right to a fair trial guaranteed by article 6 of the echr is respected, there is no need to go any further with the centralisation of the eu. furthermore, each member state should be free to determine the legal form of legal aid. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it would be another step towards centralisation. in addition, legal aid is already available in austria.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal for a directive on legal aid is moving towards more standardisation and centralisation. the intention to ensure a certain minimum standard of rule of law within the union is indeed in the right direction; however, as long as the right to a fair trial guaranteed by article 6 of the echr is respected, it should be left to the member states to determine the legal form of legal aid. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report put to the vote contains positive aspects on the abolition of torture and the death penalty, a subject for which i have always been an advocate. the inclusion of goods needed for this purpose in a list is an important step towards europe ceasing to indirectly support other countries in the practice of torture or the death penalty. the report is positive.
in writing. ‒ export controls are to be applied to goods that can be used to torture people. for example, certain drugs used for the execution of the death penalty are to be included in this list. i support that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the proposal put to the vote contains some positive aspects which are listed in the list of measures to improve the prevention of torture and the death penalty by including the necessary goods.
in writing. ‒ the anti-torture regulation (ec) imposes export controls on certain military goods and goods intended for the purpose of torture. the report includes a proposal to include in this list certain medicinal products which may be used for lethal injection for the purpose of capital punishment. i think that this is a very important point.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on enhanced strategic cooperation between europol and the people's republic of china. the exchange of personal data is completely excluded. as this highly sensitive subject does not come up in cooperation, i shall vote in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ this is about enhanced cooperation and information exchange between europol and china. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a good one, but it is not enough to make it clear that the euro is not a currency. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken against this report because, although there are some good aspects in it, i am very sceptical about europol. there is no guarantee in principle that personal data will be excluded from this exchange of data.
in writing. ‒ the proposal includes strategic cooperation and enhanced information exchange between europol and china to strengthen the fight against organised crime. the exchange of personal data is completely excluded under this agreement. the intention is to support it, but i am critical of a central europeanisation of police work with europol as the institutional centre. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the reorientation of relations between the union and the acp states. the cotonou agreement, which has been in force until now, has a sobering record, particularly in the fight against poverty, the main cause of flight and migration. the establishment of another body is unlikely to change the situation, but the reasons, objectives and methods are quite understandable. i shall therefore abstain on the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the resolution deals with the reorientation of the european union's relations with the acp states (cotonou agreement). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as well. the report is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the resolution deals with the reorientation of the european union's relations with the acp states (cotonou agreement). the record so far is sobering. the eu and acp have agreed to promote the political and economic integration of the acp regions. however, there was disagreement on how the poverty reduction target should be achieved. the future use of the same instruments in relations with the acp states can therefore have only a limited impact on their development. i therefore abstained.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the principle is that in a community one can rely on one another and must be prepared to offer solidarity under certain conditions. this applies to the solidarity-based reception of refugees as well as to the reforms agreed for money. the direction in greece is correct. but the greek government cannot rely on the extension every time it implements the road map. greece has achieved a great deal and, according to the oecd report, has reformed its tax system the most in the last year of any developed country. but still only half of the taxes due are collected. the economic growth in greece in the first half of the year has surprised everyone, despite the refugee crisis and the unfortunately slow implementation of the third programme. we have only transferred 28.9 billion of the 86 billion guaranteed at present because the pace and scope of reforms have not been sufficiently advanced. so we have both a positive balance sheet and a list of deficiencies. yes, we can talk about further debt restructuring, but not instead of reforms, but alongside reforms.
i have to say, madam president, i am sorry to say, mr moscovici, that i cannot share your optimism about greece's macroeconomic performance. the greek economy will contract by a further 0.3% this year, according to eurostat, and public debt will reach a record 182.8% of gdp . investment and domestic demand are also declining. i do not want to talk about unemployment, especially youth unemployment. the imf has long expressed doubts about greece's debt sustainability, most recently in an analysis in may of this year. it now calls for a major debt reduction by the euro area and the european credit institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is now up to the greek government to implement the agreed reform steps so that the eurogroup can decide on the disbursement of the remaining 2.8 billion. but these reforms are lagging behind. the greek parliament adopted a package of reforms last week, but only three of the fifteen measures have been implemented. that's not enough! the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commissioner said it: implementation is the weak point of the programme. perhaps you should take up mr lucke's proposal and encourage a debt cut against leaving the euro zone.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr niedermayer, on your remark that we must get back on the right track: i think the key point is that we must of course also measure the macroeconomic situation against the microeconomic situation: how are the selfemployed and small and mediumsized enterprises in greece doing? do you think that reforms could be introduced here, so that the macroeconomic situation can be strengthened through own initiatives?
in writing. the battered greek economy is improving slightly in the second quarter, but will still contract by 0.3% this year, according to eurostat. there is still considerable uncertainty about these data. a booming tourism industry has contributed to a slight decline in unemployment, but public debt is currently at a record high of 182.8% of gdp. the youth unemployment rate was approximately 47.7% in august 2016. i believe that the debt sustainability of greece is highly questionable, as confirmed by these data. i am obviously in agreement with the imf, which called for a debt cut for greece in may of this year. however, i am not calling for a debt cut, because without serious changes, it would be pointless for greece's inefficient and corrupt economy and administration. i therefore call for financial regulation to be such as to put limits on the irresponsible business practices of banks. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that taxpayers are not held responsible for the mistakes of banks. because the euro rescue packages have so far only helped the banks and not the citizens of greece.
in writing. i would like to express my solidarity with the greek people. the greek people have made many sacrifices in recent years. in order to meet the troika's austerity targets, massive social cuts and cuts in workers' rights were tolerated. more than a third of the greek population is affected by poverty, one in two young people is unemployed and the suicide rate has risen massively. greece has done a lot, the tasks have been completed. now we all have to do our part. as agreed and repeatedly called for by the imf and also by commissioner moscovici, debt relief for greece is needed to return to sustainable growth. because greece will not simply grow out of debt on its own. it is not possible that this debate, on the backs of the greek people, should be postponed until after the elections in germany. we need a rethink in europe. the austerity policy in greece must be ended. sustainable investment in the country's future to create jobs is necessary. and last but not least, trade union rights must be restored.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i want to start from the back, which is to say what we need: we need a public register of companies so that we can understand who is the beneficial owner of companies - that is, the disclosure of beneficial ownership. if we had, it would have been much more obvious what was going on with mrs kroes. in order to prevent a case like that of mr arias cañete in the future, we need an improved procedure for the declaration of the commission's financial interests, which gives us, as the european parliament, more say in this matter. the commissioner who is appointed or who is appointed must not be incompatible with the job. what do i mean? commissioner kroes is not a martian woman. she has a professional background - we all have a professional background - but it is important that this should not affect her political decisions. by not reporting the company, which was revealed by the bahamas leaks, ms. kroes has now broken the rules. we had her successor, mrs vestager, here last week in strasbourg when we discussed her apple decision - a tough decision. and if the commission is to take clear, hard decisions, and not deal with tax evaders in a sleazy way - as mrs kroes has done, for example - we need a commission which is impartial and as free as possible.
in writing. i support the idea of the epp group leader manfred weber to give every eu citizen a free interrail ticket to travel in europe on his or her 18th birthday. we will discuss with other groups in the european parliament and the european commission how this idea can be put into practice and we will now carefully examine the costs and financing possibilities and the administrative burden of this project. it's not going to be easy. but we believe it is an investment in young people and thus an investment in the future of europe!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. i would like to see this discussion not about roaming like at home, but about phones like at home, not just about roaming, but about phones in general in all areas. we're way behind that. we have waited a long time for an item on the agenda which was about interrail and about young people being able to travel by train across europe for free and then get a feel for europe. i think there is nothing we could do more to make europe feel like a home and a place to live than to make it feel like you are not abroad when you drive a few kilometres across the border, use your mobile phone and surf the internet. this is the way we should go from a european point of view, that this is all a space for communication. and it's especially important for the boys. we're not on that road. we have abandoned net neutrality in the first reform of the single telecommunications market in order to cushion the telecommunications industry's profits in roaming, it has been said. but that is not why roaming was abolished. now we have a fair use clause, which ultimately still allows for roaming. we'll see how the market decides. i'm not confident that it's going to get any better. and that was decided, and then we didn't clarify: what is the telephone in other eu member states? what are the wholesale prices? it's all still open, it doesn't make any sense. i hope that we can reach a mutually satisfactory conclusion by the end of the period. i'm not feeling very confident right now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. once again, there is a council debate to be held here, once again the same issues are being discussed here, once again there are no solutions. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. but what the house is really concerned with is a very different matter. the question is, who will be the next president? the race is between the social democrat schulz on the one hand, who realizes that he cannot flee to germany to run for office and wants to keep this post, and on the other hand the conservatives, who also struggle for power, for positions, for money and for influence. i say it is completely irrelevant which of the two will be the future president, because they both belong to the same eu cult and nothing changes in the matter. and in this context, it is more than bad to say that the referendum in hungary is bad, to put your head in the sand in the uk, to not offer solutions to the mass immigration and the problems here. i call for a fundamental reversal of this policy, otherwise you will be driving the whole of the european union against the wall with this policy. and nobody here wants that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the forthcoming summit is like any summit in recent years: a lot of open construction sites, and once again the heads of state and government will be dealing with the refugee crisis and migration. and once again, the problems are described in detail and lamented. once again, after the summit, heads of state and government will stand before the cameras and tell their national public that they are right and the others are wrong. i wish it were different this time. i would like to see the recognition that we can only move forward with something in common and that it is not about being right but about pragmatic solutions. the tasks are clear: stabilizing the regions of origin by ending the conflicts and dramatic imbalances, joint protection of the common borders and, above all, relocation. this problem is not solved by looking the other way. we need pragmatic solidarity, and we need to be able to do so. the best way to support greece is to give the people who are stuck here a new home in the willing countries, and there are positive approaches to that. we need to accelerate this process, and we need to have the courage to act by moving to create humanitarian corridors to curb smuggling and to put measures in place to finally allow people to stay in their homes. promises are not enough. it's about real projects and real money.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! after the experience of brexit, the hungarian referendum, the uncertainty about ceta and ttip in many member states, i expect this council to finally decide in its own communiqué that all the member states are committed to stand united in the european co-responsibility, to inform citizens about european objectives, decisions and needs, instead of drawing the national map against europe, instead of playing national direct democracy against european parliamentary democracy. i expect you to make it clear that you are taking responsibility for the community, rather than making a statement against the european union and then kneeling before it and playing with people's worries and fears. the european union must become more capable of action. and the council can contribute by adopting, at each council meeting, a measure on each of the issues discussed today which will make the european union more capable of acting on its way to its objectives. this would also be verifiable and would thus create trust and credibility. yes, i'm in favor of the african efsi for the african marshall plan. but it is a drop in the bucket if we do not have a common foreign, security and defence policy, a common investment policy, a common development policy, a common migration policy, a common external border security and a common integration policy. the overall approach is what solves our problems, not a single measure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to use my short speaking time to deal with ceta in particular. we're at the negotiating text in the after-game. the lack of enthusiasm of the austrian population is not based solely on vague fears, but rather a good number of austrians are actually quite well informed about the technical details of ceta. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the opportunity to present a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the same applies to the high labour, social and environmental standards and the exception of special rights of appeal. i do not see - not surprisingly - a social europe on the agenda of the european council. i know it's important that we talk about the defense union now. but if we are talking about security, we must also talk about social security. that's something that is infinitely important to people: to have a roof over their heads, to have a job, to have basic security. the social pillar, which is being worked on tentatively but nonetheless, should be pushed forward and included in the european council's discussions as soon as possible.
in writing. the council meeting on 20 and 21 october will address key issues of the european union. these are the core problems facing the eu today and the most urgent ones to be solved. the main issues are migration, where the necessary changes must be made, and european trade policy, where new conditions must be created in order to achieve a resilient trade and economic policy for the member states. the union's external relations with third countries are also of great importance, where a frank debate is needed to restore normal relations between the eu and russia, for example. uncontrolled immigration, the threat of terrorism and the economic and social insecurity of citizens are at the heart of the current disillusionment in europe. to meet these challenges, concrete initiatives are needed. in particular, on migration, internal and external security issues and the systematic fight against radicalisation within europe, those priorities for which there is a broad basic consensus at member state level need to be supported and enforced. the lasting protection of the external borders of the european union, the cessation of the flow of refugees, combined with the general fight against the causes of flight, are issues which the council should deal with.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. the convention covers cases of international child abduction by partners of different nationalities or residences and includes provisions for the settlement of custody disputes. the commitment of peru to the convention is an important step towards strengthening the rights of children.
in writing. ‒ states parties agree to implement a system of cooperation in cases of child abduction by separated partners of different nationalities. the place of jurisdiction shall be the state of the child's residence. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give a ruling on the question of the right of the child to be returned to the appropriate parent, and to reduce the burden on the child in international custody disputes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it deals with custody disputes. this is particularly useful in custody disputes where the parents have different nationalities.
in writing. ‒ the convention includes a system of cooperation between states parties to resolve cases of international child abduction by separate partners of different nationalities. this is done by establishing that the courts of the child's state of residence have jurisdiction and that the law of that state is applicable. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. in view of the increasing number of problematic cases of international custody disputes, i consider this convention to be useful and have therefore agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. the convention covers cases of international child abduction by partners of different nationalities or residences and includes provisions for the settlement of custody disputes. the fact that kazakhstan is committed to this convention is an important step towards strengthening children's rights.
in writing. ‒ states parties agree to implement a system of cooperation in cases of child abduction by separated partners of different nationalities. the place of jurisdiction shall be the state of the child's residence. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give a ruling on the question of the right of the child to be returned to the appropriate parent, and to reduce the burden on the child in international custody disputes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it deals with custody disputes. this is particularly useful in custody disputes where the parents have different nationalities.
in writing. ‒ the convention includes a system of cooperation between states parties to resolve cases of international child abduction by separate partners of different nationalities. this is done by establishing that the courts of the child's state of residence have jurisdiction and that the law of that state is applicable. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. in view of the increasing number of problematic cases of international custody disputes, i consider this convention to be useful and have therefore agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i agree with this report. the convention covers cases of international child abduction by partners of different nationalities or residences and includes provisions for the settlement of custody disputes. the commitment of korea to this convention is an important step towards strengthening the rights of children.
in writing. ‒ states parties agree to implement a system of cooperation in cases of child abduction by separated partners of different nationalities. the place of jurisdiction shall be the state of the child's residence. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give a ruling on the question of the right of the child to be returned to the appropriate parent, and to reduce the burden on the child in international custody disputes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it deals with custody disputes. this is particularly useful in custody disputes where the parents have different nationalities.
in writing. ‒ the convention includes a system of cooperation between states parties to resolve cases of international child abduction by separate partners of different nationalities. this is done by establishing that the courts of the child's state of residence have jurisdiction and that the law of that state is applicable. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children. in view of the increasing number of problematic cases of international custody disputes, i consider this convention to be useful and have therefore agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this resolution. the rejection of privatisation efforts in the seed sector and the extremely critical attitude towards genetically modified food are particularly welcome.
in writing. ‒ in order to ensure food security, the commission is invited to promote small farmers. the international community is also called upon to take action to combat malnutrition. i share that view and therefore support this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is against the privatisation of seeds. the report also calls for cooperation with local farmers.
in writing. ‒ the resolution addresses and criticizes the growing privatization and land grabbing as a threat to food security. the commission and the international community are also called upon to support small farmers and to take measures to combat malnutrition. that is why i have agreed to this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i reject the motion for a resolution. the creation of a european public prosecutor's office and the shifting of competences to eurojust are contrary to the claims of sovereignty of the member states in the enforcement of law in their territory.
in writing. ‒ the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office and its endowment with the necessary powers as the centre of european prosecution represents a further step towards unification and centralisation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken against this report because it talks about support which means additional competences for eurojust.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims at establishing a european public prosecutor's office as the institutional centre of european prosecution and follows a path of further unification and centralisation. the power to prosecute crimes should be vested exclusively in the national states (prosecution as a state monopoly). that's why i turned it down.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. the european industry is facing many problems in securing the location of its production facilities on the continent and should therefore be supported as much as possible. this support must take the form of improved framework conditions, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity and national labour rights and social traditions.
in writing. ‒ since a large part of intra-european value creation is attributable to industry, economic policy must, while respecting subsidiarity, national labour rights and social traditions, create the appropriate framework conditions to avoid mass redundancies in the future, as in the case of caterpillar and alstom. i agree with that.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it calls for a better framework for industry. the framework conditions will be created taking into account subsidiarity and national labour rights and social traditions.
in writing. ‒ the mass layoffs at caterpillar and alstom show that the industrial base is of paramount importance to european prosperity and well-being. europe must create a better framework for industry, taking into account subsidiarity, national labour rights and social traditions, in the context of an active economic policy. the motion for a resolution is a step in the right direction.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr preda, your classic, repeated russian bashing and putin bashing is your right, but i have a question for you: are you looking in all directions? and have you noticed that, for example, in the sad area of syria, great activities have been launched in cooperation between us troops and kurds, but that the americans have then forced the kurds to go back to make room for turkey here, so that we can look at the matter less one-sidedly ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to say to my fanatical transatlantic colleague, mr brok, and his friends: i firmly reject any military terrorism against civilians, against un institutions, whatever it is. whether it comes from russians, americans, germans or italians, i reject and condemn it, unlike those who obviously ignore that there are very shameful things happening here, from turkey, saudi arabia, america, which obviously cannot be discussed here. and i will speak to her. turkey, for example, is invading syria in violation of international law to bring stability to the country and to protect the people with the euphrates shield. it is clearly madness to ignore this because it is a nato partner of germany. obviously, there's a fool's freedom here. turkey's good business dealings with isis over the years are now obviously forgotten. mr. president, you weren't even paying attention before, so you're quiet now. i just want to suggest that we look everywhere where something is happening. let's not be blind in the left eye. the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to vote on the report because it is not in a position to do so.
i have to say, madam president, it is no longer about the causes that started this conflict: freedom and democracy and a brutal regime fighting for its survival. syria is the scene of proxy wars and the enforcement of geopolitical interests. it's about the very existence of our civilization. the brutal terror of daesh is spreading terror and fear, the systematic starvation of cities like madaya is reminiscent of the middle ages, and the continuous bombing of aleppo provides us with unimaginable images of destruction. the effects of this war are no longer limited to syria, and the many refugees are a daily reminder of this conflict. it is in europe's interest to put an end to this nightmare. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. europe must speak with one voice, with determination and unambiguity, and it must choose the language of humanity, as mogherini and stylianides have done with their humanitarian initiative for aleppo. but this initiative must not be confined to aleppo. we must also provide for those towns which are still starving. and we must create humanitarian corridors so that the injured and those in need of protection can be evacuated directly from the threatened areas. and finally, we should also support those regions in northern syria and rojava which have liberated themselves from daesh at great cost, where people want to return and now feel abandoned by us.
in writing. the situation in syria is becoming more and more catastrophic every day and we have been watching for years. the end of the joint us-russian operation, sad as it may sound, gives us in europe a chance: it is high time that we demonstrate our strength with resolute diplomacy. weapons will not solve this conflict, only negotiations. we can show all the proxy powers that are bleeding the syrian people for their claim to power that we do not agree with their actions - here we also have many economic resources in our hands. i am glad that two key proposals i made last week have been incorporated into the syria resolution: first, that europe must engage more diplomatically. and secondly, i have also proposed that those forces who bombed the aid convoy near aleppo a few weeks ago and killed many people in the process should be held accountable. this form of war crime must not go unpunished.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i want to start by showing you a poll published in a colombian newspaper on monday: the boys and girls of colombia would have voted yes. the children who were orphaned, the recruits, those are the future of colombia. all of these would have voted yes. the victims voted yes. but the "yes" only achieved almost 50%, no more. he won the no with a little over 50%. in a democracy, even if it hurts us, even if it disappoints us, we must respect the will of the electorate, and we all accepted this when we were with the delegation from the european parliament, respecting the will of the electorate. but i admit my great disappointment and also sadness that, it seems, fear has won over hope. but it must be said clearly that these years of dialogue, of effort, of patience, the achievements so important that are in that peace agreement must not and cannot have been in vain. we must start negotiating again with the existing base. on a basis that was achieved by involving victims' organizations, involving women's organizations, asking for "something that was in the agreement" a comprehensive rural reform; also the political participation of those who leave the weapons; a democratic opening in the country and, also, the agreement on victims, reparation, non-repetition. all that is in that agreement must be the basis on which the future of colombia will be built, with the full support of the european parliament and the european union, so that it can move forward, because the achievements and also the efforts of those who want peace in colombia and what has been achieved together must not have been in vain with the 'no'. we voted here in parliament to support the 'yes'. and we continue to support the colombian people.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i am delighted that we are having this debate here today. i think it is very important that we, as representatives of the community of values in europe, support the women in poland, but also everywhere else, in their fight for their rights and against a ban on abortion. i want to make one thing clear: an attack on women's rights is always an attack on liberal democracy and an open society. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the moment we start attacking this in any way, we are endangering the values society in which we live and of which we are very proud. and are we not very proud of the society in which we live and the progressive position of women in it - at least outwardly? do we not use every conceivable means to teach other cultures about our values and to put them on a pedestal? when i look at the growing number of people in europe who have recently come to call themselves feminists, when it comes to condemning people and practices from other cultures or religions, i discover a certain hypocrisy. because where are these people now when it comes to defending women's rights, when it comes to abortion? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. whether it is orbán's refugee policy or poland's access to women's rights, we measure with two different standards. but one thing is clear: the female body has always been a political battleground and will probably remain so for a long time. gender plays a central role in politics. women are being used to mediate conflicts between the state and society, as the exaggerated debate over the burkini ban this summer shows. i can only say one thing as a woman and as a politician: my body is mine, and the more often and the louder we women repeat this phrase, the sooner it will become reality!
madam president, i would like to thank you for your contribution to this debate. i had the opportunity last weekend to be in poland with colleagues from the s&d group - as a sign of solidarity and concern about developments in that country. we have spoken to many people and they have told us that european solidarity is important to them. that's why i wear black today as a symbol of that solidarity. poland is an important part of europe. poland is a very important issue for europe, and that is why we must have european debates. the defence of women's rights is a central, original european concern. women's rights are human rights, and women have a right to their own bodies. in no case should it be a question of punishing women for exercising this right. to start a family, to have children, that can and must not be forced. it's about a climate of humanity. it's about help, not punishment. the question arises why the number of children born per woman in the eu is on average 1.58 whereas in poland it is only 1.3%, in france 2.0 and in sweden 1.8. this situation shows us that we need to create a climate in which children are welcome, as the polish initiative 'save the women' wants. it's a common concern that we all share. i repeat, help, not punishment.
the next item is the debate on the following questions: the request for an oral reply to the council on the un climate change conference 2016 in marrakesh (morocco) (cop 22) by giovanni la via, peter liese, jo leinen, julie girling, gerben-jan gerbrandy, estefanía torres martínez, bas eickhout, marco affronte, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000103/2016 - b8-0718/2016) (2016/2814(rsp)) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the un climate change conference 2016 in marrakesh (morocco) (cop 22) by giovanni la via, peter liese, jo leinen, julie girling, gerben-jan estebrandy, gerben-jan martínez, marco eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000104/2016 - b8-0419/2016) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the un climate change conference 2016 in marrakesh (morocco) (cop 22) by giovanni la via, peter liese, jo leinen, julie girling, gerben-jan gerbrandy, gerben-jan esteban, gerbrandy, marco eickhout, marco eick torres martínez, marco eick and estefanía torres, on behalf of the committee on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o000103-0718/08/2016-08/2016 - b8-08-04/2016);
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the ratification of the climate treaty has been celebrated with big words like 'historic day' or 'the miracle continues'. and i think the miracle really did happen. we were very happy last year when the treaty of paris was signed. we are now pleased that it will actually come into force before the cop 22 in marrakesh. it is therefore particularly surprising that there were still people in this house who apparently deny climate change, who also voted against ratification yesterday. we have received many examples today that we need solidarity in the future to really bring this climate agreement to life now. we have many opportunities in this parliament in the coming weeks and months to prove that we are serious about this commitment - whether it is to negotiate the emissions trading system or whether it is to move towards a circular economy. this is all evidence where we can show that we are serious about a carbon-free future. i ask everyone in this house to continue to have 610 members of parliament who say: yes, we want a future without co2 emissions!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have been demanding this mandatory transparency register for many years. there is hardly a discussion with the public where we are not asked about the lobbyists and asked why there are still some 90 000 lobbying organisations and lobbyists in brussels and only 10 000 of them are registered. i think it is urgent that the same rules of the game should apply to all three institutions - the council, the commission and parliament. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. because what we want is a register that we can really rely on, that doesn't give us false security because maybe there weren't enough resources to really check all the information, etc. this means that very high precision is required and, of course, a high level of human and financial effort is required in advance. i would also like to say one thing: let us put joint pressure on the member states to introduce similar registers, because lobbying does not start in brussels or strasbourg.
the commission has already done so. i would also like to begin by thanking my colleague, mrs christel schaldemose, for this really successful proposal. it shows something which i had actually considered to be settled two or three years ago. it was a great surprise to me to find that there are not so many regulations in europe, that some of the packaging materials that come into contact with food on a daily basis are not yet regulated in europe, even though it is now known that they emit toxic substances. i think that in the context of this combination, as she has mentioned, we should look at reach and food contact materials. there are things that are prohibited by reach, but then if they touch our food, then suddenly it would be okay, because they're just in the packaging. i believe that we must set very clear signs here, investing in the confidence of europeans, because they must know that not only are the foodstuffs in europe safe and not harmful to health, but also that the packaging in which they are supplied, bought and transported on the internal market also meets all the requirements of the highest health standards.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, the member states do not live on mars or anywhere else, but as co-legislators they are also involved in legislation. the commission's contribution now makes the member states look more or less surprised or as if it had nothing to do with their own duties. how do you see it?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate you in advance, before i get to the subject, on your moving speech yesterday in the debate on women's rights in poland. it was really moving. the european union was founded on the rule of law and the predictability of legislation. every citizen has the right to be informed in good time whether and which legislation is being adopted at european level and which national body is responsible for its enforcement. the member states are not surprised by their obligation to implement. they are involved from the outset as co-legislators and therefore they must be fully aware that the rules will then be implemented as soon as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the citizens suffer here more or less severely. that's why they're so big on monitoring. and finally, please note that these are often minimum standards. it is not all over-regulation, it is often minimum standards that can be exceeded.
in writing. ‒ the objections to the new accounting standards raised in the resolution are quite justified and could raise problems as to the question of which funds could be used for a bank resolution. i therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am positive about the impact of ifrs 9 on the banking sector, the insurance sector and the financial markets in general, but also on the financial sector as a whole.
in writing. ‒ while this report contains very good ideas, there are some areas where i cannot agree. an example of this would be my doubts about private experts.
in writing. ‒ it is noted that there is a need to develop a better understanding of the impact of ifrs 9 on the banking, insurance and financial markets in general, but also on the financial sector as a whole. it also requires an analysis of the impact of the adoption of ifrs 9 on financial stability. that is why i have agreed to this report.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on this resolution. the suffering in aleppo is inhuman, but this resolution fails to give a correct and detailed account of the reasons for it, it is undifferentiated. the atrocities of the islamic state or al-nusra front are completely ignored, while the assad regime and russia are blamed for the suffering.
in writing. ‒ this resolution does not give a comprehensive picture of the situation in syria. while russia and the assad government are mentioned, which are blamed for attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure, neither is nor the al-nusra front are mentioned. that is why i have had to abstain from speaking here.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report because the resolution completely excludes radical islamist tendencies. not a single word is said about the islamic state, but russia and assad are blamed for the misery in aleppo.
in writing. ‒ the resolution completely excludes radical islamist tendencies and islamism as the decisive factors in the civil war. the only ones mentioned by name are russia and the assad government, which are blamed for the suffering in aleppo. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am very concerned about climate and environmental protection. but here co2 emissions have been identified as the essential pillar of this agreement. i voted against this because it indirectly supports those countries which rely on nuclear energy.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution welcomes the paris agreement on climate change (cop 21), which i have already rejected for several serious reasons, as a 'milestone in the fight against climate change'. the european parliament also called for the paris convention to enter into force as soon as possible. that is why i have rejected this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this own-initiative report. consumers are exposed to a number of hazardous chemicals, including perfluorinated compounds and endocrine disruptors, which can cause chronic diseases. i am very concerned about consumer protection and i support the demands made here.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on improving the control and regulation of food contact materials. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers against the risks arising from the use of certain dangerous chemicals. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because consumers are exposed to a number of chemicals of concern, including perfluorinated compounds and endocrine disrupting chemicals such as bisphenols and phthalates. the chemicals mentioned may cause chronic disease or developmental disorders. i am in favour of allowing the member states to take measures on their own if the european union no longer follows the precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some good suggestions for improving the control and regulation of food contact materials. consumers are still exposed to a large number of chemicals of concern and strict regulation, in line with the requirements of the internal market, is essential to ensure the high level of health protection provided for in the framework regulation and the treaties. that's why i agreed.
in writing. - i will abstain on this report. while calls for improved channels of democratic expression at eu level are welcome, there are also sections aimed at committing member states to implementing eu law in order to prevent misconceptions about the union's legislative activity and eu scepticism.
in writing. ‒ the report criticises the inadequate implementation of eu law by member states and calls for the introduction of an eu administrative procedure. the european parliament adopted a resolution on this in 2013 but the commission subsequently failed to act. the idea of a uniform eu procedural law is generally welcome, but the report goes in the wrong direction on a number of other points (such as calling on the commission to initiate infringement proceedings against those member states which reject a system of compulsory admission quotas for refugees). i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls on member states to include as little as possible in the report on the implementation of eu law. i think that a democratic expression of will cannot be ruled out.
in writing. ‒ the report criticises the inadequate implementation of eu law by member states and calls for the introduction of an eu administrative procedure. the european parliament adopted a resolution on this in 2013 but the commission subsequently failed to act. the idea of a uniform eu procedural law is generally welcome, but the report goes in the wrong direction on a number of other points (such as calling on the commission to initiate infringement proceedings against those member states which reject a system of compulsory admission quotas for refugees). i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. the commission's proposal to authorise a genetically modified maize variety was rejected and the commission was forced to reconsider its proposal. the implementing decision is not compatible with union law, the risk management recommendation is deficient and, from the austrian point of view, gm foods should be rejected in general.
in writing. ‒ the resolution notes that the draft commission implementing decision is not compatible with union law and therefore calls on the commission to withdraw its draft. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not distorted by the introduction of new species of fish.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the commission's implementing decision is not compatible with eu law. the commission is invited to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ the resolution notes that the draft commission implementing decision is not compatible with union law and therefore calls on the commission to withdraw its draft. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not distorted by the introduction of new species of fish.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. the commission's proposal to authorise a genetically modified maize variety was rejected and the commission was forced to reconsider its proposal. the implementing decision is not compatible with union law, the risk management recommendation is deficient and genetically modified food should be rejected in general from the austrian point of view.
in writing. ‒ the resolution notes that the draft commission implementing decision is not compatible with union law and therefore calls on the commission to withdraw its draft. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not distorted by the introduction of new species of fish.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the commission's implementing decision is not compatible with eu law. the commission is invited to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ the resolution notes that the draft commission implementing decision is not compatible with union law and therefore calls on the commission to withdraw its draft. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not distorted by the introduction of new species of fish.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. the commission's proposal to authorise a genetically modified maize variety was rejected and the commission was forced to reconsider its proposal. the implementing decision is not compatible with union law, the risk management recommendation is deficient and genetically modified food should be rejected in general from the austrian point of view.
in writing. ‒ the resolution notes that the draft commission implementing decision is not compatible with union law and therefore calls on the commission to withdraw its draft. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not distorted by the introduction of new species of fish.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the risk assessment of the crop carried out by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are deficient. the commission is invited to withdraw the implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. the commission's proposal to authorise a genetically modified maize variety was rejected and the commission was forced to reconsider its proposal. the implementing decision is not compatible with union law, the risk management recommendation is deficient and genetically modified food should be rejected in general from the austrian point of view.
in writing. ‒ the resolution notes that the draft commission implementing decision is not compatible with union law and therefore calls on the commission to withdraw its draft. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not distorted by the introduction of new species of fish.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the risk assessment of the crop carried out by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are deficient. the commission is invited to withdraw the implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ the resolution notes that the draft commission implementing decision is not compatible with union law and therefore calls on the commission to withdraw its draft. as the risk assessment of the planting carried out by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are deficient, i have agreed to the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. it rejects the commission's proposal to allow a cotton variety and forces the commission to reconsider its proposal. the implementing decision is not compatible with union law, the risk management recommendation is deficient and genetically modified food should be rejected in general from the austrian point of view.
in writing. ‒ the resolution notes that the draft commission implementing decision is not compatible with union law and therefore calls on the commission to withdraw its draft. as the risk assessment of the planting carried out by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are deficient, i have agreed to the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the risk assessment of the crop carried out by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are deficient. the commission is invited to withdraw the implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ the resolution notes that the draft commission implementing decision is not compatible with union law and therefore calls on the commission to withdraw its draft. as the risk assessment of the planting carried out by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations proposed by the commission are deficient, i have agreed to the resolution.
the commission has already done so. the eu now needs a new strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal, as the deal offers an opportunity for reforms at political, economic and civil society levels. the european external action service is already taking this into account by setting up an iran task force and opening an eu delegation in tehran. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is a great opportunity for european companies. in the first half of this year alone, trade between iran and europe has increased by 43% in the context of the agreement, and 30 iranian banks have joined swift. the iranian government is very ambitious and aims to achieve an annual economic growth of eight percent. the country needs foreign direct investment to do this. over the next ten years, €1 000 billion will be invested in infrastructure alone. iran is also the second largest economy in the middle east and the current volume of trade between the eu and iran is expected to quadruple in the next two years. the eu was iran's largest trading partner before the sanctions, and it must now be our aim that the eu regains that top position.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. how often do we hear that european values are in danger? but if it happens then - as it is now with the rule of law procedure against poland - then it is said: no, the eu cannot do that. the european union's intervention is negative. we do not want that, we want to preserve our sovereignty. many governments and many people forget that we created these european values together - the charter of fundamental rights, which everyone agreed to at the time. and that's what we have to defend. we have not succeeded in the past in creating a sense of we with the methods that we have. we want to see a world where we can no longer point the finger at a state, a government, but say together: we want to change this, because we do not want democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law to be in danger. it is also important for me to make it clear with this report, with this demand, that this is not only against the so-called new member states - poland and hungary. there are also things that are not right in the old member states: the state of emergency in france, the ban on demonstrations in spain or, a few years ago, under berlusconi, the media power of the then prime minister. that wasn't right either. we need a pact like this. we have to do this together. only in this way will we be able to convince the citizens once again that this union is also for them and not just for a few. i am glad that we have managed to make this report. it's a shame we couldn't get this traffic light system with the colors. that would be important for visibility. but i am also glad that we have found a really large majority here in the committee and, i hope, also this afternoon, and the only one who was really massively against it was the enf. i want to thank sophia in the field for your courage and passion in bringing this to the table and all the other shadow reporters. it was a really great collaboration. and to mr. timmermans, follow what sophia did in the field. dare to think big! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i have to say, madam president, the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. the libe committee has adopted the report by a large majority, and has once again shown that the members of this house are capable of making substantial compromises. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is true that the copenhagen criteria provide a very strict mechanism for joining the union. once this happens, there are hardly any adequate means of punishing a failure to comply or a willful violation, especially when it comes to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the existing instruments are not sufficiently targeted to influence threatening developments at an early stage. when they finally arrive at the eu level, criticism by the member states concerned is often styled as an external threat and a solution to the problem is very difficult. the report proposes to link existing instruments, to start at an early stage and to put all member states - old and new - on an equal footing. the democracy scoreboard is a format that provides comparison opportunities. i think that this is a step towards action and i hope that the commission will see this opportunity and take it.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report. the transfer of dna data in the intelligence and counter-terrorism field is highly desirable and cooperation in this area should be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ this draft implementing decision deals with the exchange of dna data in the detection and combating of crime. the data will also be used for counter-terrorism purposes. denmark has fully implemented all the necessary data protection provisions. i therefore approve this draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the transfer of dna data (genetic information, genes) is very important in the detection and combating of crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ in times of threat of international terrorism and transnational crime, the exchange of dna data within the union is necessary and useful. an assessment based on an evaluation report has shown that denmark fulfils all the criteria and has fully implemented the data protection provisions. a successful test run was also carried out with the netherlands. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report. the transfer of fingerprint data for the detection and combating of crime and terrorism is highly desirable and cooperation in this area should be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ this draft implementing decision deals with the exchange of dactyloscopic data in the detection and combating of crime. the data will also be used for counter-terrorism purposes. denmark has fully implemented all the necessary data protection provisions. i therefore approve this draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i also welcomed this report, as the transfer of dactyloscopic data can help to identify and combat crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ in times of threat of international terrorism and transnational crime, the exchange of dactyloscopic data (fingerprints) within the union is necessary and useful. an assessment based on an evaluation report has shown that denmark fulfils all the criteria and has fully implemented the data protection provisions. a successful test run was also carried out with germany. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report. the competence to grant short-stay visas without a visa should remain with the member states. in addition, approval would represent a further step towards visa liberalisation for holders of ordinary passports.
in writing. ‒ this draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports constitutes an interference with the competences of the member states. that is why i reject this draft.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the responsibility should lie with the member states themselves. i believe that approval would be another step towards visa liberalisation for holders of ordinary passports.
in writing. ‒ the member states should in principle be responsible for the visa regime. such an agreement would represent a further step towards european-centred visa liberalisation also for ordinary passport holders . i therefore rejected this report.
in writing. ‒ as it is a budget-neutral solution to cushion temporary liquidity problems in the financing of projects of regional importance and esi funds, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report examines the budgetary problems of individual member states implementing the esif programme. this esif programme supports, in particular, projects in rural areas. this is a budget-neutral solution. that is why i support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a budget-neutral solution to cushion temporary liquidity problems for these very important regional projects and subsidies.
in writing. ‒ the proposal provides for a budget-neutral solution to cushion temporary liquidity problems for very important regional projects and grants. austria also benefits greatly from this fund, which is why i have approved the request.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the waiver of mr jean-marie le pen's immunity, because freedom of expression must not lead to the waiver of immunity.
in writing. ‒ since there is no direct and obvious link between the statements made by jean-marie le pen and her political obligations, i voted against the motion and therefore in favour of protecting the immunity.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the preservation of the immunity of mrs collins. the committee has stated that there is no such situation as to justify a waiver.
in writing. ‒ on 11 may 2016, jane collins submitted to the plenary a request for the protection of her privileges and immunities in connection with a civil case pending against her in an administrative court in london. since there is no direct and obvious link between the statements and the political obligations, i voted against the motion and therefore in favour of protecting immunity.
in writing. ‒ i am voting for the preservation of the immunity of mr borghezio. the committee has stated that there is no such situation as to justify a waiver.
in writing. ‒ having established that there is no direct link between the questionable statements made during an interview with a radio station and parliamentary activity, i voted against the application and therefore in favour of protecting his immunity and privileges.
in writing. ‒ this report endorses the council's position on the existing regulation and calls for the scope of railway statistics to be extended to include infrastructure data and accident and incident data. the results of the negotiations are to be welcomed. the collection and evaluation of data for the european railway system could indicate the need for action in investments. that is why i am voting to accept the council position.
in writing. ‒ this is the first reading for the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 91/2003 on railway statistics with regard to the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. this report is welcome, as data collection can indicate the need for action and show or relativize the impact of investments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because there has been a lot of investment in infrastructure, but no concrete results have been achieved so far. the collection and evaluation of data for the european rail system shows clear need for action and the impact of investments needs to be transparently presented.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the present council position amends the existing regulation (ec) no 91/2003 on railway statistics with regard to the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents, extending the scope of railway statistics (including, inter alia, infrastructure data and data on accidents and incidents). the negotiations have shown the importance of having a clear concept for the development of ertms (european rail traffic management system) as large-scale investments in infrastructure have already been made without any concrete results. the council and ep negotiators involved believe that declarations of intent by the key actors involved, eurostat, the commission and the era (european union railway agency), will effectively prevent unnecessary duplication of work. the results of the negotiations are to be welcomed. the collection and evaluation of data for the european rail system could indicate the need for action and show or relationalize the impact of investments. i therefore voted against the amendment to allow the council decision to be adopted.
in writing. ‒ this report extends the collection of statistical data to include goods and passenger traffic on inland waterways, which was previously excluded from the data collection. the collection and evaluation of data for transport on european inland waterways could indicate the need for action in investment and also the potential of these often overlooked transport routes. that is why i am voting to accept the council position.
in writing. ‒ this is a regulation on the statistical recording of goods traffic on inland waterways. as such a recording is already taking place for most other areas in the transport sector, i welcome this view.
in writing. ‒ i welcome a regulation on the statistical recording of goods transport on inland waterways, as such recording is already taking place in most areas of transport. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ a regulation on statistical recording of goods transport on inland waterways is welcome, as such recording is already taking place in the maritime, air and road transport sectors and a successful policy to strengthen the role of inland waterways in the transport sector should be based on reliable statistical data. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a european parliament and council directive deals with customs infringements and sanctions in relation to the legal framework of the european union. i consider it critical that sanctions be harmonised at eu level. that is why i voted against this proposal.
in writing. ‒ customs law is already harmonised and falls within the competence of the european union. the harmonization of sanctions at european level would be a critical consideration, as implementation of the directives varies from one country to another and the economic interests of the different member states differ widely. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this proposal calls for the harmonisation of sanctions systems with regard to the customs systems of the member states. customs legislation is already harmonised and falls within the competence of the union. however, harmonisation of sanctions at eu level is critical because member states implement the current eu directive very differently due to different economic interests. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ the report assumes that although cuts are being made in all member states more money needs to be put into the hands of the institutions to meet their security needs. soldiers are already patrolling outside the buildings, which are secured with bulletproof entrances. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of security staff and to reduce the number of operational staff in the institutions by 5%. the funds allocated to this purpose are not included in the original budget allocation, since they have to be transferred from other budget lines. in the interests of sound budgetary management and a sound security concept, i therefore reject the present proposal.
in writing. ‒ this is the amending budget 3/2016 concerning the security of the european institutions. these institutions would be, for example, european schools, the parliament, the commission, the ecj, the court of auditors, etc. the necessary funds are to be generated by budgetary transfers. it would be desirable if the european union as a whole were to demand and implement a greater emphasis on security, and not just in its own institutions. that is why i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it simply puts more money into the hands of people who are not covered by the 5% rule. the new driver service will not be funded from elsewhere and will have to be raised from elsewhere.
in writing. ‒ the draft provides for a subsequent recasting of the amending budget 3/2016. the budget for security measures is to be increased by eur 15.8 million this year. this would entail considerable additional costs in the long run. that is why i rejected this report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the report. it is an important and right step to further normalise and deepen relations between the european union and iran and to maximise the economic potential in the mutual interest.
in writing. ‒ this draft european parliament resolution on the eu's strategy towards iran is an important and right step towards the normalisation of eu-iran relations. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because this agreement is an important step towards normalising relations between the european union and iran.
in writing. ‒ the nuclear agreement with iran is an opportunity to promote domestic reforms and improve relations between the member states and iran. the islamic republic is a major player in the middle east and plays a key role in combating radical islamism in iraq and syria and restoring stability to the region. that's why i agreed to the draft.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on this report. it contains, in principle, correct findings and conclusions on the roots and ways of combating organised crime and corruption, but i still have concerns about the establishment and acceleration of the work of a european public prosecutor's office.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the fight against corruption and the follow-up to the crim resolution. the report contains relevant findings and conclusions concerning organised crime, corruption and the fight against them. however, the report also contains some points, such as the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, which i regard critically. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it contains generally correct findings and conclusions on organised crime, corruption and the fight against them. international cooperation on trafficking is also to be encouraged. however, i have concerns about the establishment and acceleration of the european public prosecutor's office. the report also contains a number of points which need to be revised.
in writing. ‒ in principle, the report contains accurate findings and conclusions on organised crime, corruption and the fight against them. however, the call for the rapid establishment of a 'european public prosecutor's office' must be viewed critically. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office as the institutional centre of european prosecution is a step towards further unification and centralisation. the power to prosecute crimes should be vested exclusively in the national states (prosecution as a state monopoly). that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report. it is based on the assumption that illegal migration is best reduced by legalizing it, thus turning the problem of mass illegal border crossings into a legal one. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ the report put to the vote is overall unbalanced. the important differentiation between 'migration' and 'flight' has not been sufficiently taken into account. the terms were also frequently used interchangeably and in a confusing way. particularly in the context of a complex and multifaceted issue such as the challenges of migration and refugees, a precise and differentiated approach is of great importance. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the rights of third-country nationals in the event of a serious infringement of the fundamental rights of the union. it also failed to take into account the fact that countries of origin and transit also have a responsibility for the effective implementation of existing bilateral readmission agreements. in addition, there is a lack of evidence on the importance of the european border and coast guard for effective external border management, the importance of establishing a common eu list of safe countries of origin and the impact of migration on the labour market. in order to achieve a more balanced report, the epp group has requested a number of separate and distinct votes in the plenary vote. mr gahler also tabled two oral amendments on the importance of returns and the implementation of bilateral readmission agreements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ this report by marie-christine vergiat is only superficially concerned with the prospects for third countries and is seriously flawed. that is why i rejected this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for further improvement in the situation of migrants and asylum seekers, and this poses a significant threat to our society and social systems.
in writing. ‒ the report sets out recommendations for action by third countries in dealing with migration and displacement, with the main aims of increasing migration, legitimising illegal migration and increasing the influence of ngos in the field of asylum. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ the report seeks to make companies more committed to respecting human rights. the commission is also proposing to make it easier to enforce human rights violations in court and to increase the scope for sanctions against companies. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because there is nothing to prevent the global human rights situation from improving.
in writing. ‒ the report provides for sanctions against companies responsible for serious human rights violations in third countries. the commission is also proposing to make it easier in future to enforce human rights in court. i have agreed to the report in view of the possible improvement in the global human rights situation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this report. i am well aware of the importance of lng for the diversification of european gas supplies, but supply must be based on market-economically viable projects. nord stream ii is one such project, designed, financed and built entirely by companies, without any use of public funds. the political opposition to this project, which has been openly expressed, has led me to reject the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage has a solid underlying idea. however, i do not agree with the strategy on some points. that is why i have decided against this eu strategy.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken against this report because there are some parts of it that i cannot agree with. a strategy for liquefied natural gas and for storage makes no economic sense if russia is right next to it. we'd have to run all the pipelines there, since the country has no deep-sea ports.
in writing. ‒ the report has two key aspects. on the one hand, the cross-border development of gas deposits is to become one of the key instruments for implementing the principle of energy solidarity in the event of gas shortages and emergency situations. secondly, strategies will be found to support facilities that can be used in the future to handle the transmission and storage of natural gas. but since i think that the critical attitude, especially towards the nordstream project, is a very bad solution, since i believe that russia remains an important partner, particularly in the field of liquefied gas trade, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because there are some passages in the text that are flawed and i cannot agree with them.
in writing. ‒ while the report makes some good proposals, such as the equivalent control of imported products, it ultimately aims at increasing the budget of the fisheries agency and, above all, at further tightening regulations for fishermen, who also need to upgrade their technology considerably. i have voted against the report because i think it is a rash step and, at the moment, particularly, impracticable.
in writing. - i will abstain on this report. it believes that now is the right time for the european parliament to take up and maintain the momentum of the new ten-t process and to look more closely at the outstanding problems of accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure in the central and eastern european member states of the eu. however, it is true that accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure across the central and eastern eu is still extremely lacking and connections need to be made to preserve economic growth and employment opportunities for citizens and businesses to the greatest extent possible.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on improving connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. i would agree with this report if it did not contain some critical points. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because it promises very good approaches in principle, but i cannot judge whether some european geographical areas which are the subject of the eu strategy for the alpine area have serious socioeconomic problems due to their peripheral location in relation to the scandinavian-mediterranean corridor along the route of the brenner motorway.
in writing. ‒ the report provides some good approaches to the outstanding problems of accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure in the central and eastern european member states of the eu. however, the imperative of open internal borders is also emphasised, which is no longer tenable in times of irregular migration and 'asylum shopping' within the eu. i therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i reject the present report. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the commission is also proposing to set up a democracy fund for organisations that award grants to local actors to support projects on fundamental rights in the eu, a task which does not fall within the commission's framework mandate.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i believe that the treaty needs to be revised urgently. for example, financial sanctions against member states that do not comply with the eu package criteria or suspension of financial assistance by the union are not included.
in writing. ‒ the report provides for a system of financial sanctions against member states that violate the eu pact criteria. this is not an appropriate or effective way of dealing with nation states and certainly not compatible with the democratic understanding of our society. it is aimed at stifling any criticism of the eu institutions in the first place. i therefore rejected the report.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the commission is in a difficult position: the scope for action is limited, the european states are putting a tremendous brake on it - we know this in the european parliament. the commission's leadership is all the more necessary, and the magic word for it is social, with five exclamation points. people want security, social security. that means that whatever we call it, you are fattening up the european social pillar as best you can. do something! and secondly, put the one-person company on the refit list. why would you do that? the letterbox companies must finally be put to rest. we see this with all the panama papers, luxleaks, bahamasleaks and so on. i would like to ask you to put forward a proposal for the relocation of company headquarters so that we can finally solve this particular problem of letter boxes. implementing and enforcing eu law is important, but it is far from enough. and finally, please don't forget the whistleblowers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr geier has had enough, he told us at the beginning of the debate today. the rapporteur is tired of the member states complaining about having to put more and more money into the union budget. mr. vulture, you know who can get enough? in europe, the people who pay for this waste of money can have enough. the people who work outside every day, pay taxes and pay for all this, can have enough. and you may not know it, but in the budgets of the individual member states - i can speak of austria, both in the federal and in the state budget - every penny has to be turned over three times in order to have a budget at all. and you take the liberty of asking for more and more money in this 2017 budget to meet the needs of migration and the lack of economic growth. what do you mean by 'the needs of migration'? is this the commission's resettlement policy, which promises eur 10 000 for each newly resettled person, that is, for each refugee? do you think we'll be able to fight the smuggling with this, mr. vulture? lack of economic growth: why don't we focus on the continent instead of negotiating blockade agreements like ttip and ceta? why don't we do that? efficient use of resources would be the right word. we've had enough of this waste of money. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i'm not quite sure what the question was. i shall try to answer what mr geier has said here. mr geier, i know this argument from mr schulz, the president, and from the house as well. we all know it. in the end, mr geier, you and the rest of the other side are upset that this union has too few resources. where's the efficiency? each member state must act efficiently with the resources it has, must act economically with the resources that people put at its disposal. we are not even thinking about this in this house or in the commission. i repeat: ten thousand euros for resettlement for every person who settles in europe, instead of tackling the problem from the right side.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the members very much for the package we have put together, which i believe will bring optimism back into our future. what the european union needs is confidence, hope and strategies to move us forward. of course, the point of growth and employment is urgent for us. if you consider that we have now put 10.6 billion euros into research and innovation in the horizon 2020 programme, you see that we are actually mirroring the real world in the virtual world. and what's needed here is for the next generation to learn how to code and how to use algorithms and how to use new capabilities. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. just like in the erasmus+ programme, where we have managed to apply erasmus for young entrepreneurs, i.e. for self-employment, for small and medium-sized enterprises, not only in europe, but to go beyond the borders of europe into the growth areas so that our young people can learn how to create jobs, how to generate growth accordingly. the last and most important point for me is actually the connecting europe facility. we simply need to be ready for 5g by 2018. we need the fiber rollout, and we need frequency harmonization. it can happen with this budget. i congratulate the slovak presidency on joining us in the negotiations. we're building the future together. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – yes, thank you mrs stihler, i think that is exactly what we want – the coding week – but we have to do more in this area. so in this package which we have now on the table, we also have the science / media app, and i think we should come together with the young people and learn together with them – with young journalists, with opinion leaders, how to get the right framework for the next future. i think it should start immediately, and i thank you very much for supporting this activity.
in writing. the present annual growth report on the coordination of economic policies, in its assessment of the economic situation in the member states, highlights some very useful and useful observations. the european semester thus identifies three main priorities on which both the commission and the member states are focusing in order to re-energize economic growth. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. in this context, the report explicitly emphasises that the number of recommendations made by the commission to member states should in future be limited to priority issues of macroeconomic and social significance. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. the report also contains some criticisms in the area of priorities, for example, in calling for the completion of the banking union, in the implementation of the country-specific recommendations, where it gives the european commission additional powers, and in the question of migration, where it sees labour migration as a counterbalance to the negative effects of population ageing in the member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. finally, we are one step closer to the implementation of our demands. on the one hand, we want taxes to be paid where economic activity takes place. we therefore welcome the proposal for a single corporate tax base as a first step and group taxation as a second step. we need a more common tax policy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the taxation of capital goods, such as the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the introduction of a new tax system, the new tax system, the new taxation of new taxes, etc. i call on the member states to stop blocking, to finally implement and to show us that they are prepared to do what the citizens demand and what the internal market needs. i would like to ask you to reject the unanimity and to take the double majority as the basis for the decision on this package.
in writing. the commission's present proposal for a uniform method for calculating profits is an important first step towards tax justice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. to achieve this goal, i see the need for further improvement: the separation of the tax base from consolidation into two separate directives must not lead to the postponement of consolidation to saint nimmerlein day. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the common tax base must also go hand in hand with eu-wide minimum tax rates. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises in the community. without minimum rates of taxation we cannot put an end to tax dumping. the commission has also proposed that the new rules should be applied to all companies with annual turnover of more than eur 750 million. this would affect only 1.6% of multinational companies. last but not least, this threshold must therefore be set significantly lower. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. life without the internet is no longer imaginable for us today. of course, not everyone has access to it in the same way; it's called the digital gap. it is not enough to have access to the internet if you are unable to use the services for various reasons. disabled people are particularly affected. the internet is often essential for them. it is incomprehensible that our directive has been blocked in the council for so long. i am very grateful to the dutch presidency of the time for taking the initiative and i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs charanzová, in particular, for her negotiating skills and her tenacity. the new directive will require public authorities such as public authorities, courts, police, hospitals, universities or libraries to design their web services in such a way that they are accessible and usable by all. this would meet the four criteria of the barrier-free internet: perceivability, operability, comprehensibility and robustness. just as important as access to websites is the ability to use apps without discrimination. this was one of the successes of parliament in the trilogue negotiations. once implemented, the directive will make life easier for more than 80 million people with physical or age-related disabilities and improve their opportunities to participate. the establishment of a feedback mechanism through which users can report to public authorities on the accessibility deficiencies of websites or mobile applications is also of particular importance. member states must designate a competent authority to monitor and enforce compliance. it also guarantees that the whole thing is more than a nice statement of intent. our directive is also an important point of reference for the further development of the digital single market. this is particularly true of the audiovisual media services directive.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in austria too, young people are storming fast food restaurants, and in austria too, there are shelves full of baked goods. but we have legislation, and yet the industry still works. this means that you can set limits by law. mrs mcguinness and i have already addressed you as representatives of the mep heart group, just as we have now written this resolution together with my colleagues. we believe that the question of non-action, the assessment of the consequences of non-action, is one that needs to be answered. people are getting sick and dying every day in the european union because we have this stained-glass carpet of legislation, because we have just four countries that have set up ceilings; some other member states have voluntary obligations. we cannot leave it to the citizens to decide for themselves which oil is good for their health or not. we need to set limits here. i know that you are very committed to this issue. i hope that we can get legislation passed here as soon as possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the republic of austria is celebrating its national day today. i can tell you that austrians are a very proud people who value democracy, the rule of law and sovereignty and commemorate these principles today. but i see that in the current developments in the european union - including the last summit here - we are facing major problems, which are particularly in the area of sovereignty. in concrete terms, i am referring to the ceta trade agreement, which is a deeply ingrained principle in which the people of europe have no direct say. the austrian chancellor has indeed conducted a survey in our country: 92% of its members and 88% of non-members have spoken out against this trade pact. he's still getting whipped. i can only say to wallonia: stand firm, do not give in to blackmail, do not give in to pressure! you are the last chance to prevent that from happening. i would like to say to austria: long live the republic of austria! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i thank you, mr vilimsky. it's a national holiday. i think it should also be mentioned that in austria only 7% of the population voted for ceta, which was put to the vote by the socialist party. 15% of those 7% were in favour of ceta. i have to thank chancellor kern for recognising after the briefing in strasbourg that this is the right way to create more jobs and prosperity. my question is: you are from the freedom party and you want free trade in the europe of the 28. then why are you against free trade with canada?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. one by one. the participation rate in the last european parliament elections was also only 13% in slovakia. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. and when people are not participating in democratic processes because of political fatigue, the results should still be taken into account. our job must be to get these people on board and to motivate them to participate in these decisions. of course we are for trade, there is no question about that. but there is also a need for regulation here and there. and here too i do not want to see austria's sovereignty suffer. (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, commission and council representatives, ladies and gentlemen! walls, blocks and fences - that is the sad summary of this summit and of these summit decisions when it comes to refugees and migration. because it is the first time that it is written that humanitarian aid and development cooperation funds are not to be used for poverty reduction, development, equality, rule of law, democratization, but they are being misused to manage european migration, because we as the european union are not able, the member states are not willing to actually share more refugees and distribute them fairly across this continent. a lot of development cooperation ngos you know some of them: caritas, care, etc., maybe you donate sometimes, mr tusk or other council members have warned that migration management and deportation agreements are linked to development and trade policies. you know what? i'm not gonna... regimes, dictatorships will be happy about that. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 states that, in the face of limited resources, more attention should be paid to budgetary discipline and to the efficient and effective use of funds, but it is clearly opposed to any cuts. in sum, the european parliament wants to achieve a further increase in the eu budget. this is not only a matter of principle but also of the increasingly tight budgetary budgets and deficits in the member states. for these reasons i would have voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 states that, in the face of limited resources, more attention should be paid to budgetary discipline and to the efficient and effective use of funds, but it is clearly opposed to any cuts. in sum, the european parliament wants to achieve a further increase in the eu budget. this is not only a matter of principle but also of the increasingly tight budgetary budgets and deficits in the member states. for these reasons i would have voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i am firmly opposed to any further increase in the eu budget. the resources provided by the member states must be used more efficiently. that is why i have rejected this general budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for a further increase in the eu budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution calls for additional funding, but does not provide sufficient reasons for this. the mff should be adjusted accordingly to provide funding for the migration crisis, an extension of the efsi and other programmes. i would not have voted for that resolution.
in writing. ‒ this european parliament resolution is about the multiannual financial framework (mff). the aim is to provide increased resources to deal with new crises. i reject any further increase in funds, as i am calling for more efficient use of funds. i therefore reject this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i also voted against this report because it calls for more money for the migration crisis. the commission is also calling for the extension of the efsi and other programmes. in sum, the report contains only calls for additional financial resources without any justification as to the programmes for which these are to be used.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution considers that the funds available under the current multiannual financial framework (mff) are insufficient in view of the migration and refugee crisis and other emergencies and calls for an increase in the funds. the aim of the project is to develop a european strategy for the protection of the environment and the environment from climate change, and to develop a european strategy for the protection of the environment and the environment. i believe that there is another way of combating this than by means of additional funds from the eu budget, which is why i rejected the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the present application concerns the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the redundancies of 800 workers in estonian chemical and petroleum companies. it should be noted that for the first time, the application was merged for two economic sectors in the same region in order to reduce administrative costs in implementation. i would have agreed to this request for that reason.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund will be used to support redundant workers. in this case, i share the commission's view that the conditions laid down in article 4 (2) of the egf regulation are met and that estonia is therefore entitled to a financial contribution. the funds spent are used for personalised services such as support for formal education, payment of training costs, reimbursement of training costs for employers, labour market training, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because for the first time two economic sectors in the same region have been brought together to apply for the money, so that there will also be less administrative costs in the implementation.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to support workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns as a result of globalisation. the proposal concerns the mobilisation of the fund for the benefit of workers in estonia made redundant by eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as. it is also positive that estonia has combined two economic sectors in a regional application due to the fact that the redundancies are in the same region, which has led to a reduction in administrative burden. i think the request is justified and i have agreed.
in writing. ‒ the report on accessibility of public sector websites and mobile applications aims to create improved conditions that allow citizens to access basic services more easily, as part of the european strategy for people with disabilities 2010-2020 egovernment action plan . i would have agreed to this report.
in writing. ‒ i consider the report on the accessibility of the web for disabled and elderly people to be a very good call, which i can only support. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the concept of 'accessible internet' covers methods and techniques to be considered when creating websites in order to make their content accessible to people with disabilities. accessibility of websites is of great importance to public authorities as it enables them to reach more people via the internet and thus to fulfil their public responsibility. i think that this measure is sensible and i have therefore agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i would not have voted for the report on 'measures to protect against pests' because my party is in favour of amending these regulations.
in writing. ‒ the general objective of the regulation is to reduce the risks posed by new pests and diseases. the text also aims to modernise trade-related plant health instruments. the aim is to ensure better traceability within the internal market or from third countries. i voted in favour of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken against this report because i believe that it contains some points which are flawed and which need to be revised urgently.
in writing. ‒ the general objective of the regulation is to reduce the risks posed by new pests and diseases. the text also aims to modernise trade-related plant health instruments. the aim is to ensure better traceability within the internal market or from third countries. i am in favour of amending the regulation in this direction and therefore rejected the amendment.
in writing. ‒ the report on economic policy coordination summarises the current economic situation in the member states. it is emphasised that the commission should henceforth concentrate on key issues of macroeconomic and social relevance. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. however, since the report calls for the completion of the banking union and gives the commission more powers in the area of priority, i should have abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ each member state of the european union should be able to decide on its own budget. we must reject any interference with the budgetary authority of the member states, and so must this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because each state should be responsible for its own finances and there should therefore be no direct financial aid and loans of any kind, as is also provided for in the eu treaties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies, as i am convinced that the sant report is the right direction to take. 21.2 million people in the eu member states are unemployed. we are now in the ninth year of the crisis. the response of the relevant institutions to the crisis has been that the only way to correct the imbalances is to cut wages and reduce social benefits. economic incentives through public investment were not allowed. the crisis has worsened. the focus on investment in the european semester must be a departure from the neoliberal path. only investments in health, social infrastructure, energy and environmental projects and the digital domain can cushion the social impact of the crisis. only by investing in the future will we create jobs. the only way to overcome the crisis is to create a social europe.
in writing. ‒ the primary objective of the european semester is to review and control the budgetary discipline and reform proposals of the member states. this patronage of the budgetary sovereignty of the nation states must be rejected on grounds of principle. in addition, the report contains a number of critical limitations on national sovereignty in budgetary matters, such as the implementation of a redistribution policy to counter 'social exclusion', which is why i rejected the proposal.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with trans fats and their impact on public health. consumer protection is to be strengthened by a labelling obligation. i can only support this and therefore i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because this motion for a resolution strengthens consumer rights and fights obesity, while also promoting consumer health.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls for the strengthening of consumer and consumer protection in health matters and criticises the harmful health consequences of the currently still wide and frequent use of trans fatty acids in the food industry and catering. in view of the increase in obesity and other diet-related diseases in the population and the enormous costs to the health system, i have agreed to the request.
mr president, mr president of the european court of auditors, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, thank you for the very comprehensive but also interesting report. nevertheless, there are some critical points to be noted. the most important of these is to examine the usefulness of eu spending. every euro must be used wisely. the use of eu funds must be effective. it is not enough to check whether the legal framework has been met. the value added for citizens is more important than any theory of planning performance. there's a massive need for improvement. secondly, the selection of projects under review does not seem to me to be sufficiently transparent and comprehensible. a sample system which does not treat everyone equally or put its finger on the known wounds, but rather checks known problem countries such as bulgaria as often as austria, for example, seems illogical to me. the taxpayer's money must be spent responsibly, and this should be reflected in the controls. therefore, the path to representative sampling should be taken quickly. and i hope that next year's report will take all these suggestions into account.
i have to say, madam president, children - wherever they are in the world - need special protection. it was only in the dark ages that people saw it differently. ideally - and this should be the focus of our concern - they will receive this special protection in their families and in their home countries. and if a child has a right to asylum - i think we can rule that out - then he also has a right to special protection in the country where that right of asylum is granted. one particular situation - which has been mentioned several times today - is that of flight. the escape of a child is, of course, a special exceptional situation. we know, for example, that refugee girls are abused, they are held in camps, they are sometimes severely deprived of their liberty, and that this is done by isis, for example, but also by other islamic groups. it's very reminiscent of the middle ages. and this is probably one of the reasons why 86% of the minors seeking asylum in europe are male. this is a question to which we should also attach particular importance.
i have to say, madam president, even after the hoped-for recapture of mosul, some questions remain. the is will continue to operate as a dangerous islamist terrorist organisation. turkey is currently operating between the iraqi army, the shiite forces and the kurdish peshmerga, and is knowingly violating international law, just to prevent a cohesive kurdish state, a cohesive kurdish region. commissioner, i've missed you mentioning that. i suppose you know, but you don't say it. it is thanks to turkish journalist can dündar, a favorite for the sakharov prize, that these monstrous turkish arms deals with isis have been exposed. if we say today: we want a multiethnic, a multi-confessional, a multi-cultural iraq again - yes, that is good, right and beautiful. it's going to cost a lot of money. but we also miss the assignment of why it came to this. this disastrous foreign policy of the united states, supported by some european countries, has finally led the poor country of iraq into this chaos.
madam president, it is very simple and it is very sad, and so i will continue to read the names of the arrested turkish journalists that my colleagues ms harms and ms valero began: cemal azmi kalyoncu, cihan acar, cihat ünal, cuma kaya, cuma ulus, cumali önal, eda şanlı, emre soncan, ercan gün, erdal şen, faruk akkan, fevzi yazıcı, gökçe fırat çulhaoğlu, gültekin avcı, habip güler, hakan taşdelen, halil i̇brahim mert, hanım büşra erdal, haşim söylemez, hüseyin aydin, hüseyin turan, i̇brahim balta, i̇brahim kareyeğen, i̇sa siyi, kenan baş, lalezar sarıibrahimoğlu, lokman erdoğan, mehmet altan, mehmet kuru, mehmet özdemir, aksoy yeni, murat avcıoğlu, murat öztürk, mustafa erkan acar, mustafa ünal. and the list goes on and on and on.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. we have a nice word for it in german. we call it "volunteer work" - voluntary, but also unpaid. but it must also be stressed and stated today that this voluntary activity has not been in europe for 20 years, because for 150 years there have been voluntary organizations in central europe, especially in germany and in my home country, austria: aid organizations such as the volunteer fire brigade, for example, which have been making a lot of money for many, many years, rescue organizations such as mountain rescue, water rescue, and of course also charitable aid organizations which have been active for many, many years. i have been a member of the volunteer fire department since i was 14 years old and i am proud to be a member to this day. because in my home country of austria alone, we have 338 055 volunteer firefighters, who are ready to fight day and night, in all weather, to save and protect property, but also lives. that's 1,680,327 hours of work. if i factor that up to an average salary, that's about $50.4 million that people are voluntarily giving, not counting the property or even the lives they're protecting. it is therefore important that we consider today what positive example these organisations can set for europe. i think that this is precisely what the edf should be doing, to implement these good examples in countries that do not have such organisations. it would also be important to coordinate today. we have a lot of organizations that are a wild growth for volunteering. we have, for example, the european youth foundation with 3.7 million, we have the eu aid volunteers with a budget of one billion, organized by the commission. we have the service civil international in europe and efd. so i think it would be important to coordinate this and to save costs accordingly and to manage the resources accordingly.
thank you, mr tajani. i know that we all share the grief for the victims of the now two earthquakes.
thank you, mrs zimmer. solidarity is also clear from this house.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution criticises the european council for its lack of willingness to cooperate with the discharge authority. the european council's annual activity report is not made available to parliament, which seriously affects the right of citizens of the union to information and transparency. this is a worrying symptom of a democratic deficit in the institutions of the union. i would therefore have agreed to the refusal of discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the european council and the council are also criticised for their lack of willingness to cooperate with the discharge authority.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution criticises the lack of transparency in the activity reports of the european council and the council of the eu and in the cost data of construction projects. it is also noted that parliament does not have sufficient information to make an informed decision on the granting of discharge and that this has led to repeated difficulties in the discharge procedures due to lack of cooperation from the council. the council's unwillingness to cooperate with the discharge authority and to provide parliament with the requested documents undermines the citizens' right to information and transparency. i see a serious democratic deficit in the institutions of the union and have therefore agreed to the request.
in writing. ‒ for the fourth consecutive year, the court of auditors issued a limited audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in its report on the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking. that is why i would have voted against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken against this report because the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking, has for the fourth consecutive year issued a limited audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying contracts.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 contains only a limited audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. this is now the fourth time in a row that this has happened. this worrying fact is addressed in the present application but no conclusions are drawn from it, despite the fact that the company was provided with the sum of eur 3 billion by the taxpayers. i therefore rejected the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors' report issued a limited audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions of the artemis joint undertaking. this concerns in particular the assessment of activities, the evaluation of internal control systems and the internal audit function. that is why i would have voted against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ in the report, the court of auditors issued a limited audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions of the joint undertaking. this concerns in particular the assessment of activities, the evaluation of internal control systems and the internal audit function. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, has delivered only a limited audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. this worrying fact is addressed in the present application but no conclusions are drawn from it, despite the fact that the company was provided with the sum of eur 2,5 billion by the taxpayers. i therefore rejected the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the iter project has faced enormous challenges since its inception. this has sometimes led to delays and budget overruns. although an action plan has now been presented with targeted measures to remove the current main obstacles to the project's progress, it is doubtful whether this project will still fulfil its purpose. that is why i would have voted against the discharge report.
in writing. ‒ given the enormous challenges facing this project from the outset, which have sometimes led to delays and budget overruns, i doubt that this project will ever achieve its purpose and have voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the iter fusion project has been highly controversial from several angles since its inception, due to exploding costs, administrative errors and unrealistic forecasts. a 2010 commission report found that the cost estimate for the research reactor project had tripled from the previously planned €2.7 billion to €7.3 billion, while many experts criticised the lack of scientific progress. the report does not contain any suggestions for solutions or improvements to the problems mentioned, which is why i rejected the request.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution. the atrocities committed by the so-called 'islamic state' must be stopped and the terrorist movement and its supporters must be fought. member states are invited to cooperate with the iraqi government and local security forces, in particular those who have protected minorities from is activities. the call for the further spread of islamist jihadist ideology and salafist jihadism to be stopped and for their followers to be brought before the international criminal court is also worthy of support.
in writing. ‒ the resolution welcomes the liberation of mosul. the indigenous communities have a right to security and regional autonomy within the federal structure of the republic of iraq. the commission is also proposing to establish a european union-wide network of experts in the field of human rights, including the european union-wide network of experts on human rights, and to establish a european union-wide network of experts on human rights. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we must act against the further spread of islamic jihadist ideology and salafist jihadism. member states should ensure that the crimes committed by the islamic state in iraq, libya, syria and other countries are brought before the international criminal court; i can only endorse this.
in writing. ‒ the report identifies key measures and commands in the fight against the islamic state. it stresses the need to take decisive action against islamist ideologies in the region and beyond, and calls on member states to ensure that the international criminal court deals with the crimes of is. in this context, the iraqi-led military coalition is urged to take the necessary measures to preserve the evidence of the crimes committed by isil and to ensure that the perpetrators are held accountable. i support this request and have therefore agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. the situation of journalists in turkey is deteriorating as the country moves further away from a democracy based on the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution deals with the situation of journalists and media workers in turkey. the resolution calls for the release of journalists and media workers who are detained without compelling evidence of criminal activity. the european union calls on the turkish government to reduce the scope of the emergency measures so that they can no longer be used as a basis for interference with the right to freedom of expression. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because turkey is not part of europe and, furthermore, a country which is moving further and further away from democracy has no place in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report criticises the massive restriction of freedom of expression and the press and the systematic intimidation of journalists in turkey following the coup attempt. the council also stressed the problematic treatment of members of religious and other minorities, the refusal to recognise the republic of cyprus and the ambiguous attitude towards terrorist groups in syria and iraq. i share this view and have therefore agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ this report contains good proposals to reduce the nuclear threat. these include negative security guarantees, commitments not to use the weapons and to disarm their arsenal. if the present report had not been so unilaterally formulated against russia, which has ratified the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons, i would have agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution deals with nuclear security and non-proliferation. i welcome the improvement of security, the reduction of the nuclear arsenal and the reduction of the detonation of nuclear weapons. however, i find some of the points expressed rather vague. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this motion for a resolution. the report contains some points which can be fully accepted, such as the call on all nuclear-weapon states to refrain from using or threatening to use nuclear weapons. however, member states are called upon to launch new initiatives to eliminate nuclear weapons.
in writing. ‒ the report makes some good judgments on nuclear security and non-proliferation, for example by emphasising the need to establish further nuclear-weapon-free zones and by noting that nuclear weapons testing and other nuclear explosions threaten world peace and security and undermine global nuclear disarmament processes and non-proliferation agreements. however, elsewhere in the report, russia is blamed in a highly one-sided manner for the growing nuclear threat and the deterioration of relations with nato. that is why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i support the idea of the european voluntary youth service and the proposals in this report. it is up to the member states to raise awareness of this service and to improve the conditions for recruitment procedures so that it can also gain popularity among the general population.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because a 'volunteering service' is basically a very important and significant thing, but in my opinion the legal framework for the service needs to be changed.
in writing. ‒ volunteering is certainly not a given in our day and should not only be praised but also helped. austria in particular has a pioneering role here, such as the voluntary paramedics or the volunteer fire brigades. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the regions concerned.
in writing. ‒ the evaluation report on the eu youth strategy 2013-2015 aims to introduce more relevant, effective and better coordinated youth policies in europe. the rapporteur, however, stresses in particular the need for the social inclusion of refugees and migrants, and fails to call for a priority for european youth in gaining jobs. this would, however, be a prerequisite for the successful integration of migrants. i would therefore not agree with this report.
in writing. ‒ this report should deal with youth unemployment. the fight against youth unemployment, primarily in the national and, to a lesser extent, in the european context, should be given greater attention. however, i do not accept that this important issue is being misused to uncontrollably extend the rights of asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against the european youth strategy because for a long time it has not been possible to guarantee jobs for local youth and there has been no successful integration of migrants. furthermore, only non-europeans are supported here; i cannot support this because our young people must come first.
in writing. ‒ the report contains some good approaches to tackling youth unemployment and mainstreaming youth issues in all policy areas. however, elsewhere, an unconditional and guaranteed minimum income is called for, as well as explicit improvement and positive special treatment of supposedly disadvantaged groups such as lgbti people, refugees or asylum seekers. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ i would vote in favour of this report because i believe that the subsidy and support scheme helps austrian farmers financially, especially small farmers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. despite the socialist to planned approaches, financial aid would also be provided to farmers in austria, especially smallholders.
in writing. ‒ the report makes useful proposals to support small farmers by better allocating cap payments and suggests that member states should better support smes by increasing the use of the redistributive premium. it is also rightly pointed out that short supply chains can link regional farmers to local producers and promote job creation in rural areas. that is why i have agreed to the report.
the explanations of vote are closed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the intergroup request to the commission for twice-yearly change of time is the result of our very active study of the scientific basis. i would therefore ask you to forward my supplementary questions to the commissioner. are you aware of the research work of the ludwig-maximilians-university in munich, which reports that with 150,000 personal data it has now become clear that a daily jet lag of 40 minutes is created, which is particularly suffered by children, students, professionals and the elderly with massive effects on the biological internal clock of the human organism? are you familiar with the scientific study by the australian researchers hillman, murphy, pezzullo entitled "the economic costs of sleep disorders", which estimates that the economic damage is about 1% of gdp? this is an incredible figure of 150 billion euros in european terms! 150 billion euros every year! do you know the statistics from sweden, germany, finland, the united states - just the ones from 2012 - that show that the risk of heart attack increases by up to 30%? if you don't know all this, i'm questioning your performance as commissioner. but if you know this data, i ask you, why didn't you react? why didn't you order a serious scientific investigation? a year and a half after the parliamentary hearing with a lot of this data, it's too late! you're not taking responsibility! make up your mind now!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the honourable member for mentioning the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises and the promotion of self-employment. we have set aside eur 500 million in the european budget for 2017 for youth employment last week. i believe that small and mediumsized enterprises in particular could play a much better role here. mr mann, do you see any possibility that the ecb might consider a strategy on how to promote youth employment and self-employment and do more for smes, to focus on financing opportunities and to see that smes are able to raise risk capital together with small and mediumsized banks?
in writing. the proposed report supports the unconventional monetary policy instruments adopted in the face of the ongoing financial crisis, which had its origins in the us housing crisis. the most far-reaching and well-known unconventional instrument is quantitative easing (qe), which started as early as 2011. in 2015, the ecb expanded its programme to qe and began buying government bonds and bonds from private borrowers on a massive scale. in this case, the ecb used a loophole in its statute to buy up massive amounts of government bonds on the secondary market. however, despite the partial economic successes of qe in japan and the united states, it is clear that monetary policy has its limits. monetary policy alone cannot overcome underlying structural economic problems and inequalities. the problem with qe remains that states no longer feel pressure to implement necessary structural reforms, and therefore the signals from the european commission, the troika/quadriga and the monetary policy environment are in conflict. however, a close link between fiscal and monetary policy is essential for a successful crisis management. this presents major challenges for the euro area, and while decisions at council level are possible, these objectives should be supported by the ecb through its monetary policy and not indirectly undermined, as is the case now.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we are here discussing the reform of basel iii one week before the crucial meeting of the basel committee on banking in chile. at the same time, the new us administration wants to repeal the dodd-frank act. during the campaign, president-elect trump said that higher capital requirements and increased oversight would limit the ability of banks to lend. and after his election, he announced that he would "dismantle the dodd-frank act and replace it with new regulations that promote economic growth and job creation". economic growth, job creation and investment - that is also what we need in europe now. and to do that we need to provide european banks, companies, individuals and the public sector with sufficient liquidity, that is to say, to provide the appropriate financing. the draft capital and liquidity standards now before the basel committee on banking supervision will do just the opposite: european banks are losing competitiveness and profitability as a result of the new basel iii rules, by requiring 25 to 30% more equity capital for lending, and some by as much as 50% more for lending, due to the standardisation of internal risk assessment. this massive increase in the capital base of banks, which is being sought mainly by the us side, could lead to credit bottlenecks. it is particularly affecting small and mediumsized enterprises, which have few other forms of financing. this is why it is particularly important that the use of internal risk assessment models, which allow banks to calculate their own risks and thus their own capital needs, is maintained, even though the us negotiators are still pushing hard for the introduction of an output floor.
the commission has already done so. i don't understand the excitement. on the one hand, we are waiting for a commission proposal to deepen basel iii. the emphasis here must be on the question of proportionality, both the definition and the effects of the definition on the real economy and, on the other hand, the extension of the sme factor, both in terms of timeframe and amount. on the other hand, we have basle, where we are waiting for basle iv and there is still no agreement because there are legitimate differences of opinion, especially between the european union and the americans. it is important that the european parliament should have a say here, because basle is not a legislator. the starting point is different. in america, the regulation affects 15 banks which are active internationally, and in our country, as a rule, more than 8 000 banks. so we have to make sure that these differences are taken into account, that the different business models are taken into account and that there is an impact assessment before we make any decisions.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european commission last week concluded its assessment of member states' budgetary policies and presented a package of economic and social priorities, which, together with the economic data in the 2016 autumn forecast, will launch the european semester for the coming year. the european semester, however, is not sustainable in the member states. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) in the member states. the commission has now, contrary to what it announced in the summer, refrained from freezing structural funds for spain and portugal, which are the perpetrators of the deficit, and from exempting from sanctions those countries which, like france and italy, have latently refused to pursue a budgetary consolidation. the others criticise the european commission for setting wrong priorities and not taking strong action against deficit-snipers. the german side in particular claims that the european commission is setting fiscal policy objectives for the next six months on its own, without any legal basis, and is at the same time trying to change the whole architecture of fiscal policy coordination in the euro area. the german side is supported by the slovak presidency of the council, which is calling for a reform of the stability pact. the pact is to be made simpler and easier to understand. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's financial interests. the credibility of the semester and the stability pact, and thus of the whole coordination framework, is at stake, if it is not already lost. when member states with budget surpluses are subject to a preventive component of the stability pact because of macroeconomic imbalances and countries subject to deficit procedures go unpunished for years, flexibility can easily be interpreted as a lack of principles. the eurozone as a whole continues to suffer from excessive government debt, as evidenced by the latest autumn forecast. but with few exceptions, fiscal consolidation is not progressing because governments do not want to implement unpopular structural measures and do not have to do so because they indirectly finance the ecb. this is not going to change if one or two member states invest more. these investments do not solve the structural and financial problems of the others.
in writing. i welcome the broad thrust of the economic policy stance for 2017. the commission is increasingly seeing that the austerity policy it has followed so far is a neoliberal mistake. social justice and investment will be the focus of the commission's plans for next year. but nice words are not enough: the correct analysis for the euro area is still the wrong policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. in order to stimulate the economy, investments in the future, such as expenditure on education, can no longer be covered by the strict fiscal rules. we cannot save ourselves from the crisis. nor can we boost demand if wages are stagnant. wages throughout europe must grow in line with productivity and inflation. the union needs an economic policy orientation that is not based on rigid growth rates. the welfare of the people must be put first.
in writing. ‒ i am abstaining on this report because it also involves the exchange of personal data. i am very much in favour of international cooperation in the fight against crime, but not at the expense of the personal rights of the citizens of the member states of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i abstain, as the current version of the report does not exclude the exchange of personal data between ukraine and europol, but in principle such agreements (as with brazil and the arab emirates, for example) are welcome.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because the exchange of personal data is not excluded. i cannot therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the proposal includes strategic and operational cooperation and thus also an enhanced exchange of information between europol and ukraine. on the one hand, such an agreement would be desirable, but on the other hand, since this agreement does not exclude the exchange of personal data and i am critical of the centralised europeanisation of police work with europol, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i support the calls in this report for a more efficient fight against tax evasion and avoidance. i hope that this report will be another impetus to increase tax transparency and thereby create more fairness in the payment of taxes due.
in writing. ‒ in order to combat tax evasion and avoidance more effectively and thus increase tax transparency, i agree with the proposal as it stands.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am in favour of a more efficient fight against tax evasion and i am in favour of increased tax transparency.
in writing. ‒ as the aim of the proposal is to combat tax evasion and avoidance more effectively, thereby increasing tax transparency and fairer and more effective taxation in the eu, and thus also increasing tax transparency, i have agreed to this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i reject the present report. while i welcome his criticism of the ecb's current monetary policy, i cannot support the call for the completion of the banking union, in particular deposit guarantee, and the creation of a transfer union.
in writing. ‒ the report provides a critical overview of the ecb's activities. but since it calls for the completion of the banking union on the one hand and the introduction of a transfer union on the other, i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is very critical of the ecb. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report supports the extraordinary measures and monetary policy taken by the ecb in the face of the ongoing financial crisis. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. but since i am opposed to such a transfer union, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this own-initiative report. it is welcome that customers will have better access to financial products while respecting the obligations of advice and transparency. the call for consumers to be able to invest their money more easily in financial products from other eu countries and to have reliable and consistent legal remedies when they have been knowingly misled is also worth supporting.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the paper, as better access to financial products by customers, better/more competent advice on financial products and easier access to legal remedies are welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a consumer report and calls for better access to financial products for consumers. the report also calls for better advice for customers and for easier access to legal remedies.
in writing. ‒ the idea behind the green paper on financial services is to identify possible regulatory measures to enable service providers to respond better to rapid changes in the market. these include digitisation measures that will create new opportunities for customers and investors, increase competition and create innovative financial products, the low interest rate environment and the greater integration of banks. it will therefore be necessary for customers to have equal access to financial services so that they can benefit from them wherever they are. to achieve this, the report proposes to create awareness and comparability through greater transparency and thus confidence in financial services. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ i reject the proposal for a defence union. the planning of such a defence union would amount to a future eu army and would be a major step towards curtailing the member states' military sovereignty. i also think it is questionable how a country like austria, whose military neutrality is held in high regard in politics and society, could belong to such an alliance with such strong ties to nato. in view of the importance of eu-russia relations, this report can also be seen as a provocation.
in writing. ‒ the long-term goal of a defence union is to build an eu army, which is the first step towards the final abolition of the sovereignty of the member states. the proposed close cooperation with nato and the attempted saber-rattling against russia in the report on the one hand and the loyalty to austrian neutrality on the other are the reasons for voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the planning of a defence union is aimed at a future eu army. this would be a first step towards the final abolition of the military sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to the creation of a common european defence union, to be implemented within the framework of the csdp as laid down in the lisbon treaty. the aim is to prepare the defence forces of the member states for this by means of financial upgrading, such as the european semester or, in the research field, by means of eda. the programme should also be reflected in the mff and taken into account. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of national experts in the field of the environment. the european defence union should be based on a fundamental revision of the csdp, guided by the principle of a strong collective defence and accompanied by 'efficient funding and coordination' with nato. it is certainly desirable to have an efficient and effective defence force, deployed primarily at the frontiers and thus involving a total coordination of all european forces. the only problem is that it is not clear who will be in charge of this force nato, commission? i find the very close links (including financial) with nato very questionable. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i shall abstain on this report. while calls for reducing red tape, increasing interconnectivity, creating sea highways and removing bottlenecks between the developed western european inland waterway systems and the less developed eastern european systems are welcome, the potential of passenger transport is too small to make a significant contribution to a sustainable and efficient transport sector.
in writing. ‒ the call for a reduction in bureaucracy in crossborder passenger shipping, more interconnectivity and the creation of 'motorways of the sea' is welcome. the report does not mention the leveling of existing waterways and the environmental problems associated with it.
in writing. ‒ i believe that progress in transport is necessary. the report also supports renewable energy sources and solar and wind energy for seagoing vessels. i have voted in favour of this report on the basis of the points i have mentioned.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur calls for a reduction in bureaucracy in crossborder passenger shipping, more interconnectivity and the creation of sea highways (also by third countries). the 'bottlenecks' between the developed western european inland waterway system and the existing less developed eastern european system must be eliminated. the potential of passenger transport by ship is, in my view, too small to make a significant contribution to a sustainable and efficient transport sector. as the eu has already adopted several macro-strategies for the danube, adriatic and ionian seas and the baltic sea, this text does not call for the alignment of existing waterways, but the need for action on the austrian system is rather small, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation. this report has balanced objectives and hopefully contributes to improving the efficiency of development cooperation. the proposals contained in it not only call for more from developed countries but also commit developing countries to taking on more responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it sets objectives that help to increase development aid.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on improving coordination between different donor countries, calling on eu member states in particular to improve cooperation with nations such as brazil or russia. other aspects include strengthening the fight against corruption in the beneficiary countries and involving private actors. overall, the report does not rule out an increase in the financial allocation of development aid, but focuses more on optimising the use of funds (doing more with less). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria (2016/2933 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think there is a consensus in this house that we are taking a very firm stand against all acts of war. but i have the impression that the two great powers - the united states and russia - are not acting in unison to eradicate the real aggressor, the islamic state, but rather that the conflict is being used to escalate the geopolitical conflict between the united states and russia. this is the wrong way. we have a new president of the united states of america now, and i have the impression that there is more will, more willingness to work together to neutralize this real aggressor, the islamic state. the sooner this conflict is neutralised, the sooner all those who have come to europe can return to their homelands to help stabilise and rebuild their country.
i have to say, madam president, the syrian civil war is perhaps the most tragic chapter of this decade. almost half of the population has been displaced within syria, to neighbouring countries and to europe , over 400,000 people have been killed, unimaginable atrocities have been committed, cities have been bombed, starved, hundreds of thousands of people have no access to medical care. peace is farther away than ever, and it is more necessary than ever. it is too little to hope that the process will eventually get under way, and there is no room for mutual blame. it is a short-term measure, a humanitarian measure. it is good to know that europe is taking the lead in this: the supply of food and medical supplies, the evacuation of particularly vulnerable people and, finally, the support of the liberated areas where there are no longer hostilities, such as in rojava. in the medium term, however, we need a renewed commitment to the peace negotiations. europe is not directly involved in the conflict. this can be seen as a weakness, but it is also an opportunity which europe should seize, but jointly and not by individual member states. the mandate of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy should be extended generously and comprehensively, and we have seen that she is a very reliable and important person in these negotiations. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we all know the situation in syria and the confrontation that is taking place with turkey. do you think it is possible to secure the refugees not only in turkey but also on their own territory? and what humanitarian services can we provide here to facilitate and enable refugees to return to their homes? do you think that the activities of self-employed people and small and medium-sized enterprises could also help to provide better services to the local population?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the high representative has already spoken about the need to think about the aftermath. it is important to enable people to return to areas where there is security. i know a lot of people who want to return to the rodshaw region, for example, and are waiting for it, but they cannot do so at the moment. in this context, it is also important - because smes have also been targeted - that people who are now in the diaspora in particular are also encouraged to take action and support the process of development.
we now come to the catch-the-eye procedure. i have many messages. i shall take one or two from each group and two from the two largest groups. catch the eye
i have to say, madam president, even if some in this house do not want to or cannot understand it, syria is a clear example of what happens when you blindly support islamists, so-called freedom fighters. if russia had been involved from the beginning, instead of letting saudi arabia and iran fight proxy wars, hundreds of millions of people would not be living under constant siege, thousands would not have died and millions would not have been displaced. there should be an immediate objective for us, mrs mogherini, namely to make the aleppo region a demilitarised zone, controlled by the un, without local military forces, without the interventions of turkey and saudi arabia, without militias and without the so-called freedom fighters who, like cowardly marauders, take the population as a shield and hide behind these people.
the debate was closed by the tabling of eight motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 november 2016. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu-turkey relations (2016/2993 ((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, so one thing becomes very clear when you listen to the debate here today, namely the most strange ethical and moral approach and also the dishonesty of the political leaders in this union when it comes to this matter. how long must the list - mrs mogherini herself read it - be before action is taken on this matter? mrs merkel is afraid of donald trump when it comes to human rights. we spend hours and days discussing human rights. this is one of the most important issues for you here, and you are not ready to finally intervene in turkey? turkey - and this is a very important point - has been occupied by the european union for over 40 years. you don't seem to care about that either. let us be honest with the turks and the europeans too and say: stop the negotiations, suspend all payments, which does not mean that we have to stop the dialogue.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very glad that we have succeeded in reaching a broad consensus here in this parliament that the negotiations with turkey should be suspended, that they should be interrupted, and that hopefully the wish of the many european-minded people in turkey will soon be expressed again, that this regime of erdoğan should take a different path or come to an end. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the freedom party was there, the leader of the party. today we hear from the liberal group: no, a complete breakdown. i'm wondering what's going on with the liberals. the question is whether the word of mr mayer, the word of the party leader, the presidential candidate, the head of the delegation or the secretary-general is valid. or is it again nothing? i am simply saying that the word of the liberal is not to be trusted, neither in austria nor in the european parliament nor in this common europe.
you have to come to the end mr paşcu.
sorry, we are running very late and i am asking you to finalise, mr paşcu. if you can finish in 20 seconds that is fine. (interjection)no, it is not enough for me. i have a list here of how much time is given to each group and to each mep and we are running very late with the time. if my predecessor does not stick to the time that is not my fault. i try to adhere to the time that is given to each speaker. so you no longer wish to have the floor? ok. i will switch to german.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 november 2016. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs anna elżbieta fotyga, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on eu strategic communication to counter propaganda against it by third parties (2016/2030(ini)) (a80290/2016).
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to express my sympathy to the high representative for the ordeal that she has to go through down there. i will speak in german now. – das neue medienumfeld, das jetzt gar nicht mehr so neu ist, munitioniert nun auch die gegner der demokratie und der pressefreiheit. diese aktivitäten sind in der ganzen westlichen welt deutlich sichtbar: durch die verbreitung von lügen, unwahrheit oder durch die manipulation der meinungen. freilich, es gibt nicht nur ein einziges land, das sich dieser methoden bedient. wir haben das gerade in diesen wochen im wahlkampf in den usa vor augen geführt bekommen. wir sehen das täglich in der berichterstattung von regierungstreuen türkischen medien. dennoch konzentriert sich dieser bericht auf ein land, nämlich russland. was ich noch bedenklicher finde: trotz unseres heftigen widerstands ist darin auch der is enthalten. er geht zweifellos mit ähnlichen methoden vor, aber er ist natürlich kein staat, und darin liegt auch das große problem. entgegen der wohlbegründeten these der eu und vieler anderer staaten wird hier eine terrororganisation auf die gleiche ebene gehoben wie ein staat. etwas, das wir seit jahren ausdrücklich verhindern, nämlich den is als staat zu betrachten, wird in diesem bericht quasi als sekundär weggewischt. wir haben damit eine rote linie überschritten. isis oder is oder da‘esch ist kein staat und sollte niemals wie ein solcher behandelt werden. es ist unbestritten, dass russland durch die verbreitung von unwahrheiten, durch das nähren von zweifeln und durch viele andere fragwürdige mediale aktivitäten sowohl die mitgliedstaaten zu entzweien versucht als auch einen keil zwischen europa und die usa treibt. wir waren der meinung, dass es auch andere staaten gibt, die man in diesen bericht hätte mit aufnehmen können, schon um eine größere ausgewogenheit zu erreichen. das und die unleugbare problematik, den is hier mit aufgenommen zu haben, hat dazu geführt, dass wir diesem bericht morgen unsere zustimmung nicht geben können, sondern uns enthalten werden. gleichzeitig ....(die präsidentin unterbricht den redner.)
(the president's speech is not being played) more speakers on the catch-the-eye list than i can take because of the time involved. i shall be allowing one person to speak from each group where someone has spoken. catch the eye
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 november 2016. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the introduction of a guarantee of competences by mr thomas händel, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (o-000133/2016 b8-1808/2016) (2016/2799(rsp)).
before i turn to the speakers of the political groups, i would just like to announce that i will no longer be taking catch-the-eye reports on this item on the agenda and on the last two that are still to come. we're already very late in the day. we'll be here until about midnight. i'd like to announce it now. if you can submit a written contribution, you can do that. it's only 200 words.
perhaps to explain briefly why mrs ulvskog has now spoken again: originally someone else was intended as the author. mrs ulvskog stood in for this person, but she was on the list. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at a later part-session. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on sign language and professional sign language interpreters (2016/2952 ((rsp)).
thank you very much for pointing out that the silence we heard was not the interpreter's, but a sign from you, as it is when you do not understand a language.
(the president spoke without a microphone) ... the attempt was made to convey to mrs stevens that she must come to an end because the hammer does not work. but it worked well. thank you very much.
the debate was closed by the tabling of two motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 23 november 2016. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on the agreement on trade in environmental protection products, tabled by mr bernd lange and mrs alessia maria mosca, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000138/2016 b8-1811/2016) (2016/2980(rsp)).
the debate is closed.
i thank you all for your patience - and the interpreters too - and i wish you a good night. (the sitting was closed at 11.30 p.m.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in a small member state like austria, 42 000 children between the ages of two and six are currently suffering from asthma. how can we explain to them and their parents that with some 2.2 billion euros spent per year, we could alleviate their suffering? how can we explain to them that this investment would, on the other hand, free up some 40 billion euros in europe, which we need today in health care, in the environment, to counter these damages caused by air pollution? how can we explain to these people that they are not alone, but that 400 000 europeans die prematurely every year because we were not prepared to take appropriate precautions in the past and to implement and monitor these precautions thoroughly? i believe that what we have to decide today is an important step, even if it is not enough to make a real impact in all areas. i think, for example, we're not detecting methane yet. but i think i can go home today and say to these parents, to these children, it's just a first step, but it's an essential step. we can help to provide not only for health here, but for a better environment. we can also help create jobs and strengthen the european union's competitiveness. i think we're gonna have to carry this out. i am particularly sorry that there have been a number of member states which have been so long in coming and where i still suspect that they will not push implementation and control forward with full force. i may be wrong about that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. greenhouse gases cannot be stopped by borders, and when it comes to climate, we are all in the same boat, globally. unfortunately, we can't choose whether our neighbor in this boat believes in climate change or not. i think it is very important to stress, even apart from these speculations, that europe will not be able to face the global challenges alone. this makes a strong common commitment to the paris agreement all the more important. climate finance and the division between north and south, between islands and the mainland, will really shape our policies massively in the coming years. it is important and right that we have taken this path here. the eu is also well on track to meet its 2020 and 2030 targets, and with the climate package, the effort sharing decision proposals and many others, we have the right foundations for this. agriculture in particular is massively affected by the effects of climate change and i believe it is in our hands, together with the economy and innovation in europe, to prepare ourselves for the climate future. climate debt at the expense of our grandchildren really has to be the end.
the commission has already done so. it is not directly climate change, and it is not directly energy production that i want to deal with now, but its effects. we are having a very heated debate at the moment about whether we want to keep the fauna and flora habitat directive as it is. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the european union's resources in the field of biodiversity. that is to say, my request is that - also in view of cop 22, the impact of climate change on the european union and on our environment - we do not reopen this package here, but continue to monitor the existing legislation, implementation and control. let's not risk something that works with refit!
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal to set the plenary sessions for 2018. it's coming early enough to make the 2017 schedule accordingly.
in writing. ‒ there is no objection to the draft 2018 calendar of parliament's sittings. that is why i have agreed to this draft.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is to be approved. it provides for every opportunity to be used for critical review of the agreement, which is of the utmost importance to citizens.
in writing. ‒ i do not support the request by 89 members of the european parliament to refer the trade agreement with canada (ceta) to the european court of justice for reconsideration. the eu commission, governments and the european parliament have been reviewing ceta for years. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the motion is from those who do not want to agree to ceta anyway. this destroys confidence in democratic institutions and stirs fears. we will not play the evil game of breaking trust! with our trade agreements, such as ceta, we are responding to people's concerns without restricting our democratic decision-making. we are giving globalization rules without endangering the communal welfare, art and culture. we are protecting our social, environmental and consumer standards and securing a good future for our agriculture. for these reasons i have decided to vote against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because every opportunity should be taken to critically review the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the proposal to request an opinion on the compatibility of the envisaged agreement with the treaties, as i believe that every opportunity should be taken to critically examine this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the present bill. the commission proposal is not so far-reaching, but the committee has done a good job and produced a report that is acceptable to all. in principle, a europe-wide strategy for improving air quality is also desirable.
in writing. ‒ a europe-wide strategy to improve air quality is desirable and i support it. the commission proposal is, however, less far-reaching than the committee's.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of this report because i believe that a europe-wide strategy to improve air quality is urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ action at eu level to improve air quality. air pollution causes an external health cost (approximately eur 330-940 billion) to society in europe. the commission proposal repeals the existing national emission ceiling directives and sets new emission ceilings for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic non-methane hydrocarbons for 2020 and 2030. the proposal requires member states to establish national air pollution control programmes. the eu's focus over the past decade has been mainly on tackling climate change, leading to a neglect of air quality. this has resulted in divergent and contradictory policy approaches. for example, the proportion of diesel vehicles that produce more nitrogen oxides and particulate matter but have 15% less co2 emissions increased. the commission has also proposed that the directive should cover methane, which is a major source of pollution. the cap should be involved in order to achieve more environmentally friendly measures in european agriculture, in particular a reduction in ammonia and methane emissions. the report is a welcome step towards improving air quality.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this resolution. it urged the commission to exercise greater restraint in the implementation of the basel iii criteria and the work of the bcbs and to take account of the specific features of the european banking system. the increase in the capital base of banks in the provision of real estate and other loans, which is being sought by the us in particular, could pose a serious threat to europe's economy. us banks are hardly affected, as us companies are more directly financed by the capital market and state-owned development banks are largely borrowing from commercial banks for residential real estate loans.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for a stronger regulatory regime for banks, but this could lead to a credit crunch again and ultimately the real economy suffers.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. since the 2008 crisis, the requirements for banks have increased steadily. the latest round of bcbs regulations on stability (tlac, leverage ratio, capital requirements, rwa, own funds requirements, lcr, nsfr) impose requirements on banks that the european system is not designed for but which greatly benefit us and asian banks. in order to ensure that european banks can compete on an equal footing with us banks and that the european banking structure does not disappear altogether in the medium term (and thus european financing only comes from non-european banks), the commission, but also eba, should take better account of the specificities of the european system and not adopt a one-size-fits-all approach. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this resolution on the revision of the common security and defence policy. the way it describes the future course of action, it implies a much tougher and more unilateral policy towards russia and it also calls for a much closer engagement with nato at all levels.
in writing. ‒ the csdp outlined here envisages closer ties with nato at all levels, while at the same time pursuing a much tougher and more unilateral policy towards russia. i reject that.
in writing. ‒ the revised common security and defence policy aims at a much tougher, more unilateral policy towards russia and a very close tie to nato at all levels, which is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the report must be rejected as a whole. he criticises the media pluralism created by social media, and even equates it with 'information warfare' or 'hybrid warfare' which needs to be better controlled, but at the same time wants the eu to promote media pluralism in other countries by increasing its presence in social networks. the mention of a russian 'propaganda war' allegedly expanding rapidly in eastern europe is not accurate. it is particularly noteworthy that the report goes into great detail about the propaganda war and the lack of media pluralism in russia, but only mentions is and al-qaida in the end, and not a single sentence was written about the lack of media pluralism and censorship in turkey.
in writing. ‒ i reject this report in its entirety, as the european union seems to perceive the flexibility and uncontrollability of news on social media as a threat and wants to counter the lack of possibility of censorship-like actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it criticises the media pluralism created by social media. it is equated with information warfare or hybrid warfare, among other things.
in writing. ‒ the report criticises the media pluralism created by social media and even equates it with 'information warfare' or 'hybrid warfare'. it seems that the flexibility of digital communication in the european union is a thorn in the side of the lack of the possibility of censorship-like manipulations. the proposed solution, like the previous assessment of the problem, is ill-conceived and one-sided: to combat russian propaganda, more efforts and resources should be devoted to the development of 'strategic communication'. the existing strategic communication posts are to be integrated into the ead and increased staff and budget. it is particularly perfidious that the reporter goes into great detail about the propaganda war and the lack of media pluralism in russia, listing is and al-qaeda only afterwards and not losing a single word about turkey. in summary, the following can be said: the rapporteur accuses 'the russians' of behaving exactly as the european union is currently behaving. manipulating the interpretation of historical events, the dissemination of an alternative narrative, the falsification of history. i did not, of course, bring this report with me.
in writing. ‒ i shall vote in favour of this resolution. it is taking an important step towards equality and equal opportunities for people with disabilities, in particular by providing sign language interpretation. it also advocates greater accessibility for people with disabilities in terms of interpretation.
in writing. ‒ i am a supporter of equal rights for people with disabilities. an important step in this direction is the provision of sign language interpretation, which provides greater accessibility for people with disabilities in terms of interpretation. i agree with that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i am committed to equal rights for people with disabilities. the provision of sign language interpretation and greater accessibility for people with disabilities in terms of interpretation is, in my view, another step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on sign language and professional sign language interpreters because i believe that accessibility is important for people with disabilities to live an independent life without any restrictions.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the objection to the authorisation of bentazon. this active substance is a herbicide against broadleaf plants and is commonly used in agriculture, where there is a high risk of groundwater pollution. the present objection raised by this resolution correctly states that an authorisation procedure particularly where the authorisation is to be extended to the maximum period respects the precautionary principle and calls on the commission to complete any missing information before taking a decision on authorisation.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the renewal of the approval of bentazone: due to sufficient substitutes in agricultural use in austria, the approval in my member state is not necessarily required. in view of the possible over-use of the active substance, the decision of the member state should be accepted in the spirit of sovereignty. nevertheless, i am aware of the need for application in agriculture in other member states.
in writing. ‒ the major danger posed to groundwater by the use of this herbicide has been decisively addressed. this resolution condemns the commission's proposal to extend the use of bentazone until 2032. i fully support this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that more information is needed to reach a final decision. the active substance is a herbicide against broadleaf weeds and is commonly used in agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution which temporarily suspends the commission's proposal to approve bentazone for the maximum period, despite the lack of a safety assessment. in the spirit of the precautionary principle, the commission must be encouraged to carry out a comprehensive test of this herbicide, in particular for potential groundwater hazards.
author. – madam president, first of all i would like to express my appreciation for the great support among almost all the political forces in this house to promote the istanbul convention. we are almost unanimously asking the european union and individual member states to ratify it, and for the first time we are sending a clear and strong political message. we are – and we will always be – on the side of victims of gender—based violence and violence against women. i will never get tired of repeating that violence against women is a violation of women’s human rights and an extreme form of discrimination embedded in gender inequalities and contributing to reinforcing them. for those who still wonder why we are once again debating this, my answer is very simple. we are not gender ideologists, we are human rights defenders. it is true that the accession process was initiated by the commission, all eu member states have already signed it and 14 member states have ratified it. but my experience has never proved me wrong: never take rights for granted. we should be vocal until we have a generation of europeans completely aware that gender—based violence is not tolerable and there is never a justification for it. on behalf of my group, i would like to express our full support for the commission and for making sure that the council reacts. until the istanbul convention is ratified by the european union, we will not have an instrument in europe to set legally binding standards to specifically prevent violence against women and girls, protect victims and punish perpetrators. i look forward to cooperating with the commission and the coming council presidencies to make the istanbul convention an eu instrument against violence against women. my last words go to the orange campaign on friday. we should orange the world and join the un women’s initiative, keeping in mind that we have to fight inequalities and violence every single day.
i have to say, madam president, it cannot be repeated often enough: the vienna-based fundamental rights agency has found that every woman over the age of 15 in the eu has been a victim of physical or sexual violence at some point in her life. this is shocking. this is happening everywhere: in all social strata, in all age groups and in all member states. yes, and it's also become commonplace to make fun of women in a sexist way. as you know, everything begins with words. the eu's accession to the istanbul convention would be a clear sign that history cannot be undone. accession would allow for better implementation of existing laws, appropriate redress rights for offenders, improved prevention and victim support, awareness raising for the creation of emergency shelters and so on. this directive, which has been discussed many times today, is therefore very necessary. the commission is to be thanked for taking the initiative and is assured of parliament's support. a few days before november 25th, this is an important sign. the council should realise that there is no point in putting such an important matter on the back burner. it is not a secondary matter, it should be the causa prima. the fight against violence against women is the foundation of a civilised society and the presidency should also put pressure on the member states that are failing.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. vat is of great importance to this report because it is the main source of revenue for the budgets of the member states and also an important source of revenue for the european union. in 2014, eu-wide vat revenue was eur 1 000 billion, of which eur 17.6 billion went to the eu budget. this represents 12.2% of the european budget. the tax evasion of such a large tax is also gigantic, and the rapporteur has already mentioned it today: the vat tax arrears are higher than the budget of the european union. the vat gap is eur 170 billion per year, of which eur 50 billion is due to crossborder fraud. this is again primarily carousel fraud, and behind carousel fraud is organized crime. the european investigators have only recently succeeded in striking a major blow against organized crime. they were able to uncover a carousel fraud scheme that caused eur 320 million in damage. the fight against vat fraud and vat avoidance, that is to say, the closing of the vat gap, must therefore be given priority. for this reason, the vat system must be made simpler, less prone to fraud and more business-friendly. in particular, smes need simpler handling without additional administrative burden, and digital technologies, digital processing platforms will be important in order to collect this vat better and more profitably in the future. i thank the rapporteur for a very balanced and good report. and i hope that this report will help us to generate more revenue for the member states and for the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the first transitional arrangements were introduced in 1993. 23 years have passed since then, and the world has changed a lot. the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the new rules on the free movement of goods. the problem is that this has increased vat fraud and distorted competition between member states. we must therefore discuss many and broad solutions. the commission has proposed the reverse charge, a system whereby goods and services are taxed in the country of destination. since vat is a consumer tax, it would make sense to collect it in the country of the consumer and not in the country of the entrepreneur. we have therefore also developed an alternative model in austria. an alternative to the reverse charge system would be a pan-european it platform, where sellers would have to register in the customer's country. there, the monthly vat is automatically determined and the data is immediately forwarded to the authority and shared across europe. i would also ask you to consider this approach. we need a competition of ideas, because only diversity of approaches can combat tax fraud and demonstrate and strengthen europe's capacity to act.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but i would like to ask - and i could ask all the rapporteurs - whether you also agree with paragraph 56 of the report, which states that legal trophy hunting has contributed to the massive decline in endangered species. i would like to know where you got this information, if you can prove it, and if you could kindly give me some information.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is welcome and it is high time that the commission tried to prevent illegal trade in species and hence also poaching. after all, poaching and illegal trade are major contributors to the extinction of species. however, in paragraph 56 of that report, legal and therefore sustainable trophy hunting was also mentioned as a major reason for the endangerment of endangered animals, and this follows more from an ideological position against sustainable hunting than from reason. the sustainable hunting of wildlife has certainly not led to the extinction of species in recent decades, quite the contrary. and the example of kenya, where a hunting ban has been in force since 1977 and where the wildlife population has fallen by 68% to date, is, i hope, well known to the commission. the reasons for this are lack of wildlife management, pressure from civilization, but also lack of protection from illegal hunting. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animals are not killed in the wild. in south africa, however, where hunting is permitted, the rhino population increased by about 900% over the same period, despite poaching of some 2 000 animals, because it is important and worthwhile for the state and the local people to protect animals and to maintain and increase the population. because where people live off trophy hunting, wildlife automatically gains value, is protected and is therefore less targeted by illegal hunting. the wildlife thus also provides a livelihood for many people and a decent wage for the local population. well-trained and equipped game wardens or bush rangers are the guarantors of wildlife conservation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i shall be voting in favour of the report itself because there is a lot of good in it. and we have to say, sustainable hunting is ultimately just protecting the environment.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. on the one hand - as we heard today - there is a well-organized criminal enterprise that generates about 20 billion euros a year. on the other hand, we have a - let me call it that - a set of measures to counter this organised criminal market in illegal trade in species. i don't think this is gonna work. i am therefore pleased with the measures that are now to be taken. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and her colleagues for this excellent report, which at last shows the possibility of doing something about this organized crime. we must first - and this has already been mentioned today - dry up the sales market. wherever there is demand, supply will be provided. wherever the penalties are not truly deterrent - both to the person who buys and to the person who trades - it will simply continue to exist. and since today's debate is about the protection of species, i cannot deny, commissioner katainen, that we also need effective protection of species in the european union, and we have made very, very good progress with the fifg directive. it is now necessary to continue the implementation of this fifg directive. wherever it's implemented, it works. please do not destroy it by opening up refit, but help us to implement it further.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. mrs o'reilly succeeds in her role as european ombudsman is the direct point of contact for 500 million eu citizens when it comes to complaints about the administration and functioning of the institutions and public authorities, and thus the natural partner at the european parliament's side. in the context of the annual report to be voted on today, i appreciate mrs o'reilly's efforts to make the ombudsman's institution as accessible as possible to the people. with new strategic studies on specific problems in the eu institutions and bodies, it has clearly been able to contribute to further improving the high standards of transparency and governance in eu public bodies. it is regrettable that some groups and members in this house - and the rapporteur in particular - are trying to ideologise important dossiers, to use them for partisan purposes and to make themselves completely unavailable to important compromises. the report also mentions and dismisses people, for example commissioner arias cañete, without providing any evidence. as far as we know, he always acted precisely within the code of conduct, he even went beyond it. there is no breach of the code of conduct here. this reporting is unqualified. i am still confident that reason will finally prevail among those responsible in the political groups and that we, as the european people's party, will be able to approve the report in plenary. the ombudsman emily o'reilly deserves it every time.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the right to live in accordance with traditional customs in one's ancestral settlements is one of the most basic human rights. in many parts of the world, indigenous peoples are denied this right, even though their rights are guaranteed by international treaties and states have committed to respecting them. again and again, they fall victim to more short-sighted, mostly economic interests. the people who resist, who rebel, are persecuted, threatened, killed, as in the case of the guarani-kaiowá in the state of mato grosso in brazil. brazil is an important partner and ally of europe. we therefore expect brazil to live up to its obligations and to do everything possible to protect human rights.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur presents in this report the significant financial losses and burdens currently faced by jordan as a result of the regional conflicts. in view of this and given the fact that jordan can contribute in the future to a more efficient response to the migration crisis, financial assistance to jordan should not be refused. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ macro-financial assistance for jordan, which is facing significant losses and burdens due to regional conflicts, i agree.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because jordan is currently suffering significant financial losses as a result of regional conflicts.
in writing. ‒ jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the crisis in syria, due to its geographical location. jordan is assuming a disproportionate responsibility in the region and is suffering from a major loss in tourism. the proposal now before us provides for macrofinancial assistance of eur 350 million to jordan. i believe that this financial aid should be given to the kingdom and that is why i have included this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns a revision of the directive on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. this is intended to help achieve minimum harmonisation of european pension systems in order to ensure pension rights for european workers who have been temporarily employed in eu countries other than their home country. as a result of the fact that a very large number of workers fall into this category and that they must be guaranteed an adequate, secure and sustainable pension, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the possibility for workers who are/have been in crossborder employment/service relationships to obtain pension rights through simplification and protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and i am in favour of simplifying and protecting the rights of workers who have worked across borders.
in writing. ‒ in view of an ageing european society, there is a need to adapt pension systems in the european union to ensure an adequate, secure and sustainable pension for all citizens. to tackle these challenges effectively, close coordinated action by member states is required. the proposed revision of the directive on the activities and supervision of occupational pension schemes is intended to help ensure the intergenerational balance of occupational pension schemes. this directive aims at minimum harmonisation and should not prevent member states from maintaining or introducing further provisions to protect members and beneficiaries. it also deals with questions of national social, labour, tax and contract law and the adequacy of pension systems in the member states. this is not a question of pension payments to migrants, nor of harmonising national pension systems, but of simplifying the way for workers who have worked across frontiers to obtain their pension rights. that is why i have agreed to this report.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution concerns the war in syria and the refugee crisis caused by that conflict. although the resolution includes the islamic terrorist organizations and condemns the war as such, it nevertheless repeatedly emphasizes russia's responsibility for the scale of the destruction and violence in aleppo. i therefore abstain on this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i strongly condemn war and islamist terrorist organisations. i do not share the resolution's claim that russia is to blame for the scale of the destruction and violence in aleppo. that is why i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution. russia's guilt in the scale of the destruction and violence in aleppo is repeatedly emphasized. however, islamist terrorist organizations are implicated and the war itself is condemned.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this motion for a resolution because, on the one hand, russia's guilt in the scale of the destruction and violence in aleppo is repeatedly emphasised, but on the other hand, the war is strongly condemned.
in writing. - i abstained on that resolution. this resolution addresses the disproportionate and repressive measures taken by erdoğan following the attempted military coup in july 2016. the measures taken by erdoğan must be condemned in the strongest terms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. ‒ i abstain from voting on this resolution because the demand for an end to the accession negotiations and the end of pre-accession assistance have been rejected by parliament and are aimed at a temporary suspension of the accession negotiations.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the amendments tabled by my group (demanding the complete closure of the accession negotiations rather than a mere suspension; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the fact that erdoğan has said he will sign the death penalty bill will be put before him by the turkish parliament, and the absence of any sanctions from the eu suggests that the joint resolution is not being taken seriously even in the turkish parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. all forms of violence against women and girls are strongly condemned here. it is also rightly noted that women are disproportionately affected by violence and abuse. the political will of the member states of the european union to expose acts of violence against women will be an important measure to combat it.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of all measures to combat violence against women and i support this resolution. these measures must be given a legal basis, as called for in this resolution, by re-inviting member states which have not yet ratified the convention to do so.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. the alarming figures, which are increasing every year, call for support for all measures to combat violence against women.
in writing. ‒ every second day, seven women are killed in europe and every third woman is the victim of physical and/or sexual violence at least once in her life. these figures are shocking, and action is urgently needed. the council of europe's istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence in the eu has been signed by all 28 eu member states, but only half have ratified it so far. the member states' declarations of intent alone are no longer sufficient. it is not enough to point out the violence against women on 25 november every year and forget about it for the other 364 days. the eu commission must also take action to ensure that an eu-wide directive on the protection of women against violence takes shape across europe. there is still no comprehensive legislation in the eu to protect women from violence.
in writing. ‒ on 4 march 2016, the commission proposed the eu's accession to the istanbul convention, the first legally binding instrument to prevent and combat violence against women at international level. (all eu member states have signed it, but only 14 have ratified it.) victims of violence against women need to be better protected throughout europe. according to a 2014 survey by the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra), one third of all women in the eu aged 15 and over - approximately 62 million - have been victims of physical and/or sexual violence (the types of which are: psychological, physical and sexual violence, stalking, female genital mutilation, forced marriage, forced abortion, forced sterilisation and abuse of women on the internet). parties to the istanbul convention must improve protection for victims of violence and ensure the prosecution of perpetrators. other goals are gender equality and non-discrimination. the shocking figures should encourage all those who speak out against violence against women. financial and human resources are needed to act more quickly and effectively. that is why i have tabled this motion.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report because it advocates transparency in relation to the ttip negotiations, in the european agencies and in working with associations. the report rightly recognises that only a high level of transparency legitimises trust in the elected representatives of the people.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the resolution's call for more transparency in negotiations (e.g. ttip), lobbying, agencies, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it calls for more transparency in negotiations such as ttip. the report also calls for greater transparency in lobbying and agencies.
in writing. ‒ this report covers the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015. the european ombudsman's various initiatives and activities are presented here. the european ombudsman's efforts to increase transparency in the ttip negotiations are welcomed. the commission is expected to publish a large number of ttip documents. it regrets that the ep's committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the automotive sector (emis) has only been supplied with partial documents by the commission and that therefore relevant information may be missing. calls for more transparency in eurogroup meetings. the establishment of a complaint mechanism for possible violations of fundamental rights by frontex in relation to the forced return of irregular migrants is supported. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission is proposing to make lobbying more transparent. in particular, in connection with the commission's meeting with the tobacco producers. as there is a general call for more transparency, particularly in the numerous ttip documents, in the eurogroup meetings and in lobbying, i have included this report.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on enhanced cooperation between member states to combat tax evasion and fraud. the member states lose €50 billion a year through vat fraud. in austria alone, the 'vat gap' caused by fraud and tax avoidance amounts to eur 2.9 billion. the report aims to help tackle vat fraud and reduce the vat gap without creating additional administrative burden for smes, and to promote the growth of smes and facilitate cross-border transactions. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on enhanced cooperation between member states to combat tax evasion and fraud and to reduce the damage caused by them. this is not, however, accompanied by any additional administrative burden for smes. i approve of that.
in writing. ‒ with revenues of almost €1 trillion a year, vat is a significant and growing source of revenue for individual member states. member states lose €50 billion in value added tax fraud. i therefore advocated closer cooperation between member states and active action to combat vat fraud.
in writing. ‒ with revenues of almost €1 trillion a year, vat is a significant and growing source of revenue for individual member states. member states lose €50 billion a year through vat fraud. in austria alone, the 'vat gap' caused by fraud and tax avoidance amounts to eur 2.9 billion. the report focuses on enhanced cooperation between member states to combat tax evasion and fraud. this report is intended to help to reduce vat fraud and to reduce the vat gap without creating additional administrative burden for smes, while promoting the growth of smes and facilitating cross-border transactions. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we need to protect europe's flora and fauna in a sustainable way. furthermore, the action plan to combat illegal international trafficking in species is a battle cry to terrorist groups, as terrorist groups finance themselves directly or indirectly, inter alia, through the trade in wildlife species.
in writing. ‒ the austrian fauna and flora must be protected in a sustainable way! the report, however, by calling for a partially arbitrary restriction of trophy hunting, ignores the incalculable consequences for the conservation of species in general. that is why i abstain from voting.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because i believe that the austrian fauna and flora must be protected in a sustainable way. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes.
in writing. ‒ member states are not only outlets but also sources for trade in endangered european plant and animal species. the austrian fauna and flora need to be protected in a sustainable way. structured exchange of information between member states (including europol) can make a significant contribution to this. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. critical is the call for an immediate and unrestricted ban on ivory and rhino horn trade (including legal state-owned trade) with the option of extending it to other endangered species. a categorical ban on hunting certain species encourages poaching and illegal trade in, for example, game trophies, and thus has the opposite effect to that intended by the eu action plan. the proposed/revised legislation should also be avoided from drawing on the us lacey act, with its legal roots in american case law. these objections are not related to issues such as plant and animal welfare or the fight against terrorism. i voted for the report for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on small transport companies micro and family businesses . such small transport companies are essential for mobility in the european ms, but these companies are currently suffering disproportionately from the lack of a single european transport area. the rapporteur therefore seeks to create the most favourable regulatory, social and tax environment possible and to extend the benefits currently enjoyed by smes to these micro-enterprises, thereby enabling them to operate across borders. that is why i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a single european transport area can eliminate the disparities in the application of legislation which currently make it very difficult for small transport companies to operate across borders. small transport companies must be given the same advantages as smes, as the former make an important contribution to mobility in the member states. i therefore agree with the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that any regulation that imposes new requirements on small businesses must be proportionate, clear, simple and unambiguous. furthermore, the development of the company must not be hindered.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur wants to extend the benefits currently enjoyed by smes (grants, defined market segment) to small transport companies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. europe should therefore pay more attention to the 'little ones'. i have supported this approach.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this motion for a resolution. the resolution is largely balanced, but it calls for interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state.
in writing. ‒ i am very sceptical about interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state and therefore abstain from voting on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained from voting on this motion because it goes beyond the bounds of the proposal and interferes with the internal affairs of a sovereign state.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. to return to the previous speaker: of course the council and the heads of state or government have decided to reduce this seven-year framework by 4% compared with the last framework, and we are saving 1% of posts per year. i would like to know which member state is as efficient as the european union. we have the smallest budget of all political levels, with 40 000 staff, and i dare say we have the most efficient budget. we have also adopted this budget for 2017 in a very democratic way, in a grassroots way. i would like to thank in particular the slovak presidency. mr lesay has been very careful in his conduct of these negotiations. i believe that in the end the main points that are important in the european union have been implemented in the best possible way. i believe that our commissioner, kristalina georgieva - i would like to thank her very warmly - has also brought the negotiations to a positive conclusion, even at four o'clock in the morning, with full dynamism, with full commitment and with all her charisma. we also see that the social attitude was there, for example at the special olympics, where we really helped the poorest of the poor in the european union with six million to prepare for the games here. our colleague mr becker was very pleased that this initiative had been implemented. we have implemented labour market initiatives. and my dear friends in ukip, we have enough unemployed in many countries. the european union in particular is called upon to take new initiatives in this area when member states are unable to eliminate unemployment, and with eures, with progress, we have managed to make great progress in this area. with cosme, we're supporting the self-employed and small and medium-sized businesses with over 50 billion extra, the european research council - the flagship project worldwide - has got more money to support young active scientists. we have also implemented the connecting europe facility, which makes this single market possible. thank you, thank you, thank you. i am proud of this europe!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not in a position to do so. thank you very much. i have a question for ingeborg the ugly. solidarity is something that must be lived every day. the european union has put forward many proposals in the refugee crisis. the problem we have now is that the member states cannot agree on solidarity. what do you think the european union could do to help bring about an agreement between the member states?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the development in ghana is very welcome, and the opening of ghana's market to 83% with the forthcoming trade agreement sounds positive at first. however, this will lead to ghana being flooded with european products and thus to a greater dependence on the european market. for example, a chicken in ghana costs €3.60 after eight weeks of farming, despite low wages, making a chicken from ghana about 100% more expensive than a cheap imported chicken from the union. what's that supposed to mean? it will be impossible for ghana's growers and farmers to compete with these import prices. they'll destroy the very foundation of existence. and what will happen next? people will go to central europe, where you will buy chickens with a minimum income, with a minimum guarantee of 800 euros, not in the market in accra, but in the supermarket in berlin or vienna.
(speaker speaking without a microphone) ...the world needs to pay attention and agree that the protection of personal data is important and is supported. i too support this agreement on principle. but you can't confuse cause and effect. on the one hand, they bring a variety of documentation and personal data exchange measures into the policy pipeline. it was the data retention, the swift agreement, the airline guidelines and so on and so forth. and wherever data is documented, wherever data is exchanged, there is also the abuse of that data. i do not understand why the documentation and data sharing is generally extended to all members of the european union, instead of focusing on communities at risk. it's not the french and german grandmothers whose data you need to monitor, it's the political and religious extremists. and that is precisely where the emphasis should be placed and we should not implement surveillance measures in respect of all citizens of the european union. you're going the wrong way.
in writing. the exchange of personal data for the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences is necessary and useful in a globalised world. however, such data exchange programmes must have the strictest security measures in place to protect personal data. i do not consider that the agreement between the united states of america and the member states of the european union provides for such security measures. i therefore take a critical view of this agreement. the balance between freedom and security is complicated. but the freedom of the individual citizen must never be curtailed. i agree with the rapporteur that this agreement represents a major step forward in the protection of personal data transferred between eu member states and the us for law enforcement purposes. but it is not the best possible agreement imaginable, even in the present situation. it merely adds new rights and safeguards for cases of transfer in the context of cooperation between the member states of the european union and the united states in the field of law enforcement. however, i am in favour of further strengthening the security measures for the protection of personal data.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the theme of the 2016 internet governance forum is 'enable inclusive and sustainable growth'. increasing connectivity is one of the priorities, and connectivity means that by 2020, an additional billion people will be online. this year's forum has three main themes, namely cyber security, cyber economy and human rights, which are very well chosen! cyber security the importance of this is not to be overstated. everyone in germany about 300 000 people were affected by the outage at deutsche telekom knows that cyber security today can affect not only companies but also every private household. the digital economy in general is the key driver of growth and employment. digital innovation, as we see today with blockchain, for example, is driving hundreds of thousands of new jobs. the eu must be strongly represented here. the decisions taken by the internet governance forum are, however, only agreements of principle. this means that they can show the potential for digital growth and its impact on a global society, but cannot prevent the fragmentation of the internet. but fragmentation is the biggest threat to the internet. the igf's mandate must therefore be strengthened. the internet must remain open and freely accessible.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the declarations of financial interests of the commissioners-designate should ensure the highest possible level of transparency, honesty, disinterestedness and accountability - this is the first maxim for us social democrats. the european institutions have a role model in this respect. we must not allow cases like neelie kroes' to happen again. activities such as those of miguel arias cañete must be excluded from the outset. we in the legal affairs committee are not only checking whether the declaration has been properly completed, but also whether there is a potential conflict of interest. the absence of a conflict of interest is a mandatory condition for the consultation of commissioners-designate, and we did not have this right of inquiry in the commission in office. it is particularly important to me that not only spouses or partners are mentioned in the declaration of financial interests, but also details of any contractual relationship which may give rise to a conflict of interest for commissioners-designate while carrying out their duties as eu commissioners.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, members of the commission and the council, mrs bearder has referred to what has been happening in the uk, especially after brexit. polish workers, people who came to the uk to work, have been physically attacked. also, during the brexit campaign and afterwards, attacks against black uk citizens, many of them born in the uk, have increased. we have seen all over this continent a rise in racism, anti-semitism, homophobic violence and hate speech, islamophobia, xenophobia and also sexism. this is something that both the commission and council have to tackle more urgently. i welcome both of you speaking out and welcoming the directive against discrimination on grounds of race and ethnic origin, and also the list of actions against homophobia. but the problem is that member states are not delivering as much as they should. when we have, in hungary for example, a jobbik mayor making sure with a decree that in his city there should not be any propagation of, for example, same-sex marriage, or of the family as anything other than marriage and parent-child relationships, and banning muezzins and other issues, how can we not make stronger efforts for member states to implement everything we have? the commission’s promise to implement the equal treatment directive is not happening. we need it urgently in order to make sure that this continent provides its citizens with what it promises. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you, mr szanyi, for giving me the opportunity to speak 30 seconds more. yes, for sure, the example i mentioned was just one of the most recent that also the government of mr orbán is not doing anything against. i agree with you, and we have been addressing this issue – the way the orbán government is working in hungary, not protecting people with whatever differences that they might have. so, the one thing that we have voted in this parliament – the pact on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights – is something that should be implemented, because that would help in order to move governments that are not adhering to european values away from that, and get them in line again with what we have decided on together.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. it aims to improve and increase the efficiency of customs controls, which in turn will help to protect consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am committed to better and more efficient customs controls and better and more efficient consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to this report, as it calls for better and more efficient customs controls and also for better consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the present proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of capital are applied in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i also voted in favour of this report, as it concerns the extension of the transitional rules for insurance-based financial products. the regulation as it stands requires a key information document for each such product. the rapid pace of trade makes the information in such a document obsolete. it is simply not possible to create a document for each individual product.
in writing. ‒ the report on key information sheets for packaged retail and insurance investment products with a view to their entry into force concerns the extension of the transitional rules for insurance-based financial products. the current regulation requires a basic information sheet for each such product. however, the rapid pace of trade makes the information in such a document obsolete, and a normal-sized bank manages such products in the five-digit range, making it simply impossible to produce a document for each individual product. that is why i voted for the extension of the transitional rules.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the proposal as i do not see any need for the introduction of visa-free short stays for kiribati citizens, especially since the competence for this should be in the member states themselves.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not see the need for a short-stay visa waiver. the commission is also proposing that the member states should be responsible for this.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-kiribati agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, because i believe that there is no need for this waiver and that the powers over visa policy should remain with the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the proposal as i do not see any need for the introduction of visa-free short stays for solomon islands citizens, especially since the competence for this should also lie with the member states themselves.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not see the need for a short-stay visa waiver. the commission is also proposing that the member states should be responsible for this.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-solomon islands agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, because i believe that there is no need for it and that the powers over visa policy should remain with the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the proposal as i do not see any need for the introduction of visa-free short stays for micronesian citizens, especially since the competence for this should be in the member states themselves.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not see the need for a short-stay visa waiver. the commission is also proposing that the member states should be responsible for this.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-micronesia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, because i believe that there is no need for it and that the powers over visa policy should remain with the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the proposal as i do not see any need for the introduction of visa-free short stays for tuvaluan citizens, especially since the competence for this should be in the member states themselves.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not see the need for a short-stay visa waiver. the commission is also proposing that the member states should be responsible for this.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu-tuvalu agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, because i believe that there is no need for it and that the powers over visa policy should remain with the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the proposal as i do not see any need for the introduction of visa-free short stays for citizens of the marshall islands, especially since the competence for this should also lie with the member states themselves.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i do not see the need for a short-stay visa waiver. the commission is also proposing that the member states should be responsible for this.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the agreement between the eu and the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver, because i believe that there is no need for it and that the powers over visa policy should remain with the member states.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of this report. the solidarity fund was set up in the wake of the severe floods in central europe in the summer of 2012 to enable member states to respond more quickly to the consequences of natural disasters. i am in favour of efficiency measures as envisaged in this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european union solidarity fund was set up by regulation 2012/2002 following the severe floods in central europe in the summer of 2012 to enable the eu to respond to natural disasters. i therefore support the efficiency measures.
in writing. ‒ the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established by regulation 2012/2002 following the severe floods in central europe in the summer of 2012 to enable the eu to respond to natural disasters. i have to say that i am not in favour of the report, since it is mainly concerned with measures to improve efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i shall vote in favour of the motions for resolutions before us. the eu is seeking an opinion from the ecj to determine whether the agreement is compatible with the eu treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights. in particular, the right of every individual to the protection of his or her personal data, the principle of non-discrimination and the right to an effective remedy and to a fairer trial.
in writing. ‒ the aim is to obtain an opinion from the european court of justice on whether the agreement is compatible with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the eu, in particular with regard to the right of individuals to the protection of their personal data, the principle of non-discrimination and the right to an effective remedy and a fair trial.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this motion for a resolution is to seek the opinion of the european court of justice on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in particular with regard to the right of individuals to the protection of their personal data, the principle of non-discrimination and the right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial. i have agreed to this request because i believe that any critical review of this agreement should be used.
in writing. ‒ although there are some innovations in terms of better and more balanced data protection compared to the umbrella agreement, for example, eu citizens can lodge a judicial objection if access to their data and the rectification of their data are denied or if data have been unlawfully disclosed by the authorities of the other party, the agreement should be rejected. the rapporteur is also sceptical about the proposal on how control mechanisms can work and at the same time not guarantee compliance. he concludes that the agreement itself should be terminated. i abstain on the proposal because a termination is not appropriate in an increasingly digitalised world and the existing agreement is a viable framework.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because, unfortunately, there is still no complete control of compliance with data protection rules.
in writing. ‒ despite some innovations in terms of better and more balanced data protection compared to the umbrella agreement (e.g. eu citizens can lodge a judicial injunction if access and rectification is denied and data is unlawfully disclosed by the authorities of the other party), i had to abstain from voting on this resolution. firstly, the agreement is based on other very questionable agreements such as the pnr and swift agreements, which the rapporteur himself considers to be critical and has admitted that compliance with the provisions of these agreements is clearly not guaranteed and should therefore be adopted. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ this agreement should be rejected for several reasons. on the one hand, there are significant negative effects for the country's economy if there is an increase in duty-free imports into ghana from the eu, and on the other hand, the duty-free export of certain agricultural products to the eu threatens to put pressure on european producers and make exports more profitable than local consumption. last but not least, there is no link to any take-back arrangements. on the basis of these considerations, i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ european producers are under economic pressure because of the threat of duty-free exports of certain agricultural products to the eu; in addition, the export of goods becomes more profitable than the consumption of the same goods locally. that is why i do not agree to this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have opposed this agreement because, firstly, there is a risk of significant negative effects on the country's economy if duty-free imports into the country increase and, secondly, duty-free exports of certain agricultural products put pressure on european producers and thus make exports more profitable than local consumption.
in writing. ‒ i could not agree with the report on an interim ec/ghana economic partnership agreement, because on the one hand there are significant negative effects for the country's economy if duty-free imports into the country increase. on the other hand, duty-free exports of certain agricultural products to the eu would put pressure on european producers and thus make exports more profitable than consumption locally.
in writing. ‒ i reject this budget proposal. the provision of the margins for unforeseen expenditure in the area of 'security and citizenship of the union' in relation to the migration, refugee and security crises shall be activated. these funds would be better spent elsewhere.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it should allow for unforeseeable expenditure in the area of 'security and citizenship' in relation to the migration, refugee and security crisis.
in writing. ‒ i could not agree with this report, since it is intended to open up new scope for unforeseen expenditure in the area of 'security and citizenship'.
in writing. ‒ i reject the report presented. it is also in favour of the abolition of the annual ceilings as a precaution and of the full use of all the possibilities for the payment of the arrears until 2020. this amounts to a massive increase in the eu budget, and this despite the fact that migration and refugee issues are not at all within the union's competence.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for a massive upward adjustment of the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ according to the rapporteur, the payment backlog until 2020 can only be covered if all the margins are fully exploited and the annual ceilings are removed as a safety precaution. but since it means a massive upward adjustment of the eu budget as a whole, i could not agree to this report.
in writing. ‒ i reject the proposal. the impact of the adjustments to own resources is to be taken into account and applied retroactively to the years 2014-2016 according to the proposal, following the new basic assessment for gni and vat. the budget will remain unchanged overall, but some countries would be asked to pay more into the budget retroactively. that was one of the reasons why britain left the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because nothing changes, except that some countries, especially the economically stronger ones, should pay more at once.
in writing. ‒ the new basic assessment aims to take into account the impact of the adjustments to own resources retroactively for the years 2014-2016. this means that economically stronger countries have to pay more. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - i vote for the motion. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiary of the measure, which is the land of bavaria. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor.
in writing. ‒ the additional financial aid for flood victims in germany discussed here is to be welcomed. i therefore agree with the request, since the increase is appropriate in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it concerns the flood disaster in lower bavaria in the summer of 2016, and the solidarity fund should be allowed to be used in the event of a disaster of a greater magnitude.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report as it concerns the mobilisation of the solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany following the flood disaster in lower bavaria in the summer of 2016.
in writing. ‒ this is about increasing the authorized funds for flood victims in germany. i voted for an increase in the appropriations in this case.
in writing. ‒ as this report concerns the increase in authorised funds to provide aid to flood victims in germany following the flood disaster in lower bavaria in the summer of 2016, i have agreed to this report.
in writing. ‒ i did not agree to this report because the eu is trying to adjust the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 in such a way that additional funds are made available for unforeseen expenditure, which is not necessary in view of the budgetary development. i am also in favour of improving the use of funds and keeping to budgetary standards.
in writing. ‒ the eu's general budget would not need additional funds if the use of funds were optimised. the aim here is to supplement the eu's general budget for 2017. i reject that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the financial needs of migration and refugee movements should be met by an increase in heading 3 of the general budget of the eu.
in writing. ‒ eur 530 million will be mobilised to address the current migration, refugee and security crisis. that's why i couldn't bring the report.
in writing. ‒ i did not agree with this report because it did not credibly show that the financial means to deal with the migration and security crisis would not be sufficient. the eu is trying to get approval to use the flexibility instrument of eur 530 million, which i reject.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the use of the €530 million flexibility instrument to provide the financial means needed to deal with the migration and security crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the money is not enough to deal with migration and security, and if it were to be approved, the flexibility instrument would be called for, with an amount of eur 530 million.
in writing. ‒ eur 530 million will be mobilised to address the current migration, refugee and security crisis. that's why i couldn't bring the report.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report. the commission is also proposing to set aside eur 50 million in the budget for disaster relief, to ensure that advance payments are made in the event of disasters and to speed up the response.
in writing. ‒ an additional €50 million is planned in the budget to enable advance payments and faster response in disaster situations. i agree with that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is intended to set aside eur 50 million for disaster relief.
in writing. ‒ as this report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for advance payments under the 2017 budget is about the need to allocate eur 50 million in the budget for possible disasters in order to ensure advance payments and thus also to be able to react more quickly in the event of disasters, i have brought the report with me.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against this report because i cannot see how it could be used to allocate funds, for example, to promote the participation of young people in democratic life in europe. the report has neither a specific focus nor a specific discipline.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for, for example, an increase in salaries and financial support for the turkish cypriot community, with the use of the contingency margin. but since it is also intended to reduce useful items such as the social fund or the regional development fund, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the enf resolution. this is a show of solidarity with the victims of the three major earthquakes in italy. the eu member states should also promote research to reduce the impact of earthquakes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses solidarity with the victims and because it provides funding for reconstruction.
in writing. ‒ the joint motion for a resolution expresses solidarity with the victims of the three major earthquakes in italy on 24 august, 26 october and 30 october 2016, calls for the exclusion of financial resources for reconstruction and protection measures from the calculation of national deficits under the stability and growth pact and wishes that member states promote research to reduce the impact of earthquakes. i therefore supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report. the rapporteur calls on the commission to amend its code of conduct and to extend the content of its members' declarations of interest so that they contain sufficient information for the assessment of financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it extends the limitation on employment for former com members from 2 to 3 years.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur calls for a more precise definition of the scope of the examination of the declaration of financial interests. it correctly states that the examination of a conflict of interest cannot be equated with the assessment of the applicant's competence and must therefore be a mandatory condition for the hearing. the rapporteur also calls for the scrutiny of declarations of financial interests and conflicts of interest to go beyond the appointment procedure, so that any substantial change in the financial interests of a commissioner during his term of office is a situation to be reassessed and subject to a parliamentary scrutiny procedure. the rapporteur calls on the commission to amend its code of conduct and to extend the content of its members' declarations of interest so that they contain sufficient information for the assessment of financial interests. the commission is also proposing to inform parliament of any changes. that is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report. the rapporteur calls for a revision of the offshore collateral directive in relation to the extraction of oil and natural gas. offshore safety is becoming increasingly important as it often involves coping with challenging geographical and geological conditions such as deep sea environments. given the scale and characteristics of the recent offshore oil and gas accidents and 'near misses' reported worldwide and in the eu, it is imperative to take measures that could reduce the likelihood of a major accident in eu waters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because criminal liability at eu level can have an additional deterrent effect. this could increase compliance with safety measures.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur deals with non-liability for environmental damage from offshore activities. more than 90% of the oil and 60% of the gas produced in europe comes from offshore activities. in this respect, the offshore safety directive was adopted in 2014, which allows licensees to be held accountable for the prevention and remediation of all environmental damage resulting from their activities, irrespective of their liability. the rapporteur is now calling for a revision of the directive or listing the shortcomings of the existing directive. the directive does not deal with civil liability for third party claims (damages to persons or property, purely economic losses). the existing directive also lacks sufficient provisions on criminal liability (lack of definitions of criminal offences, no minimum sanctions for infringements of the offshore safety rules). the rapporteur therefore calls for comprehensive harmonisation in the area of offshore activities, as is already the case in the directive on the criminal protection of the environment. the rapporteur also believes that a balanced solution must be found to the requirements of compulsory precautionary measures in order not to undermine the effectiveness of the polluter pays principle. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. the eu member states should also work to ensure that transparent and credible elections can be held.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the volatile situation in the run-up to the elections in the drc and calls on eu member states to create the conditions for transparent and credible elections in the drc. i agree with that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion, as the eu is supposed to be committed to the protection of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the protection of human rights in the democratic republic of congo.
in writing. ‒ i reject the present resolution. the report goes beyond its aim: instead of allowing developing countries to take control of their own energy access, it maintains a prescriptive stance, calls for the abolition of subsidies that allow certain sectors in developing countries to operate in the first place, insists on renewable energy, even though many countries are not equipped to do so, and completely excludes other useful aspects such as off-grid electricity.
in writing. ‒ instead of allowing developing countries to take control of their own energy access, the rapporteur maintains a prescriptive finger-pointing attitude, calls for the abolition of subsidies that allowed certain sectors in developing countries to operate in the first place, insists on renewable energy, even though many countries are not equipped to do so, and completely ignores other useful aspects such as off-grid solutions. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report. the rapporteur is committed to improving the european reminder procedure. the commission also noted that the council had not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission is invited to prepare an extended, updated and more detailed impact assessment.
in writing. ‒ the european order for payment procedure is an optional procedure which can be used as an alternative to national procedures in crossborder cases. this report does not deal with the introduction of the european order for payment this happened already in 2006 but seeks to increase the use of the european order for payment. the first is to reduce the time taken by member states to issue payment orders (currently 30 days to 6 months), and the second is to make it possible to complete and submit the forms online. the rapporteur focuses on possible improvements in the application of the european reminder procedure (updating of forms, interest accruing on the principal claim, use of foreign languages, deletion of exceptions to the scope, digitalisation). the rapporteur also criticises the two-year delay in the commission's review report, which he considers to be insufficient in terms of content. the commission is invited to prepare an extended, updated and detailed impact assessment. that is why i have agreed to this report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the compromise does not, unfortunately, reflect the european parliament's central demands at first reading. the fact is that, following the revision of the pso regulation, the tendering procedure is now compulsory, with a few exceptions. the possibilities for direct award in local transport will be reduced and there will be more frequent changes of operators. the compulsory recruitment of staff for the change of operator has not been enforced, nor are minimum social requirements to be guaranteed in tendering procedures. i would like to emphasize that these were the core demands of the socialist group. what is being proposed is not a balanced compromise between market opening and social protection. the interests and protection of workers are not taken into account. on the contrary, because of personnel costs, companies participating in tenders will face a price war. we in the spö want rail passenger transport as a public service for the benefit of the general public. but quality and efficiency are not achieved by liberalization. the opening up of markets can only work in conjunction with a strengthening of social standards and workers' rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this report is a great success and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr nagy, and my colleagues from other groups for the excellent cooperation. our work over the past weeks and months has shown that fundamental rights have no political affiliation, but concern us all and must also be respected and protected by all of us. i have to say that the text is not as ambitious as i might have wished. but the fact that it was adopted by a large majority in the committee and with cross-party support is an important step. we have thus created a common basis for respect for fundamental rights in europe. recent developments in some member states should remind us that we can never take fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law for granted - especially in the times we live in. we are living in turbulent times, times of growing intolerance and disrespect for our fellow citizens and for those who often seek refuge and security in europe, times of geopolitical emergency, of political populism, also of increased violence and moral uncertainty. if we do not pay attention and really pay attention now, the rule of law in europe may be seriously endangered. the european parliament must therefore act now more than ever to ensure respect for and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms throughout the union. a functioning democracy is therefore a conditio sine qua non for the rule of law. it is our moral duty to do whatever is necessary to preserve and extend the gains for which we have fought - democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. following the paris agreement and the eu emissions trading scheme, the commission presented its proposal for an accelerated transition to a low-carbon economy in the summer, and now the winter package, a package for clean energy for all. commissioner šefčovič, you said that 90% of the work is done. and it certainly also confirms and ensures that the eu can take a leading role in the field of clean energy systems globally. the current package has three main priorities: increasing energy efficiency, the eu's global leadership in renewable energy and a special focus on consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy market is not distorted. they will have a wider choice of suppliers, access to more reliable price comparison tools and the ability to generate and sell their own electricity, which will lead to a substantial reduction in electricity prices. by 2020, the annual energy savings from ecodesign measures alone will be equivalent to the energy consumption of italy and households can save up to eur 500 per year. similarly, ecodesign alone offers great opportunities for businesses, and an additional revenue potential of eur 55 billion. the eu's energy policy is also a major driver of global investment, with clean energy attracting €300 billion in global investment last year alone. to meet the 2030 targets, it will be another 379 000, in particular for the construction industry through an amendment to the energy performance of buildings directive, and a market of eur 120 billion for smes in particular. but let me just make a few criticisms: i think it is better to strengthen and network national regulators rather than a pan-european regulator. i am also against the introduction of european charges and the capacity mechanisms must be defined precisely.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. congratulations on the clean energy package. it shows that the european union is on the way to investing more in production again. finally, we should also have a binding target of 30% of gdp in manufacturing by 2030. if we see that france is currently at 11%, then this is a huge opportunity that this clean energy package will create new jobs here, and of course also investments. but i think that the problem of traffic could be solved more efficiently, through sensor technology and the new 5g system, if we use 5g for continuous driving. i went to parliament today and there were some red lights that were stopped for three minutes. there are heavy trucks that are accelerating back up to 50 kilometers per hour, and that's a huge challenge, because of course, it creates an extremely high amount of fine dust, from braking. the tyre wear, the brake pads, the engines are in the worst condition. so, please, take care of continuous driving so that we can drive in cities at a continuous speed. this also increases the life of the batteries in e-mobility. finally, 140 million homes in europe also need to be thermally renovated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the single market. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much for this question. i think we could easily solve the problem in that respect by making it easier to invest. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy market, in particular investment in the thermal protection of houses against cold and heat. my proposal is that the emissions trading system, the revenue generated by the national finance ministers, should be made available to the european investment bank and thus start an investment programme that allows these energy efficiency measures to be put into the pockets of the citizens. thank you for asking.
in writing. - i rejected that report. the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the people's democratic republic of algeria in union programmes. the agreement will give algeria access to european programmes and provide it with financial support. but there is no adequate compensation.
in writing. ‒ this is a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european union and algeria, relating to a framework agreement. the agreements aim to establish free trade in accordance with wto rules, with a transitional period of up to 12 years for the tariff reductions of the partners for commercial goods. these agreements, which already contain provisions on the liberalization of trade in goods, will be supplemented by a series of additional negotiations to further liberalize trade in agricultural products, services and investments and to establish a dispute settlement procedure for trade issues. as this framework agreement, financed by direct eu investment, will lead to a wide-ranging opening of the market between algeria and the eu member states and to algeria's opening up to eu programmes, i think this report should be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against this report because the agreement is financed by direct eu investments and calls for a wide opening of the market between algeria and the european member states for european programmes.
in writing. ‒ this is a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european union and algeria, relating to a framework agreement. the agreements aim to establish free trade in accordance with wto rules, with a transitional period of up to 12 years for the tariff reductions of the partners for commercial goods. these agreements, which already contain provisions on the liberalization of trade in goods, will be supplemented by a series of additional negotiations to further liberalize trade in agricultural products, services and investments and to establish a dispute settlement procedure for trade issues. as this framework agreement, financed by direct eu investment, will lead to a wide-ranging opening of the market between algeria and the eu member states and to algeria's opening up to eu programmes, i think this report should be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim is to increase transparency by means of a 'legislative footprint'. the political and strategic assessment is negative. the smaller groups and non-attached members are restricted by ceilings on written questions, motions for resolutions, amendments, etc. i also find the restrictions on free speech in plenary and in committees questionable. the provision that the ballot for the election of the 14 vice-presidents of the european parliament must contain at least seven names in order to be valid is also of equal importance. this is tantamount to having to vote for politically unpopular candidates.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday, the parliament voted on the revision of its rules of procedure, which also aims to increase transparency by means of a 'legislative footprint'. this will help to better understand the activities and influence of eu lobbyists and interest representatives and their relations with meps. the amendments include a stricter code of conduct for members and stricter penalties for disruption of parliament's work. in addition, as from 2017, negotiating mandates for compromise talks with the council must be adopted by the plenary at first reading. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the eu. the political assessment is negative. the epp and s&d have in some areas, by placing ceilings on written questions, motions for resolutions and amendments, deliberately restricted the rights of smaller groups, non-attached members and individual members. the restrictions on free speech in the plenary and in committees are particularly drastic, with the aim of banning well-marked speeches that are considered to be 'xenophobic' or 'anti-foreigner'. the provision that the 14 vice-presidents of the ep must have at least seven names on the ballot paper to be valid is also absurd. this is tantamount to having to vote for politically unpopular candidates. that is why i did not include this report.
in writing. ‒ i have opposed the general revision of parliament's rules of procedure, as i cannot support certain points in the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the european elections.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday, the parliament voted on the revision of its rules of procedure, which also aims to increase transparency by means of a 'legislative footprint'. this will help to better understand the activities and influence of eu lobbyists and interest representatives and their relations with meps. the amendments include a stricter code of conduct for members and stricter penalties for disruption of parliament's work. in addition, as from 2017, negotiating mandates for compromise talks with the council must be adopted by the plenary at first reading. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the member states, and to extend it to cover the whole of the eu. the political assessment is negative. the epp and s&d have restricted the rights of small groups, non-attached members and individual members in some areas by imposing ceilings on written questions, motions for resolutions and amendments. the restrictions on free speech in the plenary and in committees are particularly drastic, with the aim of banning well-marked speeches that are considered to be 'xenophobic' or 'anti-foreigner'. the provision that the 14 vice-presidents of the ep must have at least seven names on the ballot paper to be valid is also absurd. this is tantamount to having to vote for politically unpopular candidates. that is why i did not include this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the report, which deals with the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015, mainly presents the migration and refugee crisis in a distorted light and calls for more rights for migrants and refugees in an undifferentiated way. the rapporteur calls for the creation of legal entry points.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in principle. unfortunately, there are some points in the text that i cannot bear. i am not in a position to support demands in the area of family law which infringe the principle of subsidiarity. i am also strongly opposed to a human right to abortion. my priority is to protect the unborn. that is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015 because it mainly portrays the migration and refugee crisis in a positive light and calls for more rights for migrants and refugees. the rapporteur also calls for the creation of legal entry opportunities and greater tolerance in terms of intercultural and interreligious relations. other negative aspects of the report included the call for legal recognition of gender reassignment at eu level and the ban on medical examinations of intersex children, and the need to pay special attention to homophobia in sport and lgbti youth in schools.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it mainly puts the migration and refugee crisis in a positive light and calls for more rights for migrants and refugees.
in writing. ‒ i could not support the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015 because it mainly portrays the migration and refugee crisis in a positive light and calls for more rights for migrants and refugees. the rapporteur also calls for the creation of legal entry opportunities and greater tolerance in terms of intercultural and interreligious relations. other negative aspects of the report included the call for legal recognition of gender reassignment at eu level and the ban on medical examinations of intersex children, and the need to pay special attention to homophobia in sport and lgbti youth in schools.
in writing. - i agreed to this report. the commission should develop a comprehensive, coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for the cultural and creative sectors, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the cultural and creative industries and enable them to fulfil their potential for generating growth and quality jobs. it is emphasised that the cultural and creative industries, which are predominantly composed of smes, operate in a constantly changing environment and are therefore challenged to develop new business models in order to design market-oriented solutions and to address new target groups. the search for rightholders and for non-transparent copyright legislation involves considerable administrative burdens, which are particularly burdensome for smes.
in writing. ‒ the commission should develop a comprehensive, coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for the cultural and creative sectors, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the cultural and creative industries and enable them to fulfil their potential for generating growth and quality jobs. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of national inspection bodies. it is emphasised that the cultural and creative industries, which are predominantly composed of smes, operate in a constantly changing environment and are therefore challenged to think and design new business models in order to develop market-oriented solutions and to address new target groups. the search for rightholders and the lack of transparency in copyright legislation impose considerable administrative burdens, which are particularly burdensome for smes. partnerships with the education sector will be strengthened to provide better opportunities for marginalised groups in disadvantaged neighbourhoods. the cultural and creative industries play a crucial role in the reindustrialisation of europe. it can boost growth and drive innovation. this is particularly interesting for digital technology. the aid to smes is also very positive. that is why i have brought the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i particularly welcome the aid it provides for small farms.
in writing. ‒ the commission should develop a comprehensive, coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for the cultural and creative sectors, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the cultural and creative industries and enable them to fulfil their potential for generating growth and quality jobs. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of national inspection bodies. it is emphasised that the cultural and creative industries, which are predominantly composed of smes, operate in a constantly changing environment and are therefore challenged to think and design new business models in order to develop market-oriented solutions and to address new target groups. the search for rightholders and the lack of transparency in copyright legislation impose considerable administrative burdens, which are particularly burdensome for smes. partnerships with the education sector will be strengthened to provide better opportunities for marginalised groups in disadvantaged neighbourhoods. the cultural and creative industries play a crucial role in the reindustrialisation of europe. it can boost growth and drive innovation. this is particularly interesting for digital technology. the aid to smes is also very positive. that is why i have brought the report.
in writing. - i abstained from this report. the equal treatment of women in politics, business and religion is the basis of an enlightened and humanistic society and is therefore non-negotiable. the rapporteur believes that the political power structures of the eastern partnership countries still show a marked absence of women. in my view, the eu is overstepping its powers and interfering with the sovereignty of the member states.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur believes that the political power structures of the eastern partnership countries continue to show a marked absence of women, both in the executive and in the parliament, mainly due to discriminatory practices. the gender pay gap is substantial in principle, although there are large differences between the eastern partnership countries. the horizontal and vertical segregation of the labour market plays a decisive role in this context. in rural areas in particular, women are willing to accept low-paid and unregistered employment offers or to pursue self-employment. indeed, women represent a large proportion of entrepreneurs and business owners, but they face the same obstacles as in the eu, mainly due to the prevalence of gender stereotypes and male-dominated sectors. the equal treatment of women in politics, business and religion is the basis of an enlightened and humanistic society and is non-negotiable. the rapporteur, in disregard of self-regulating processes in the labour market, is interfering with the economic and political sovereignty of states and is pushing women in the eastern partnership countries into the role of victims (gender stereotypes) in a generalized way.
in writing. ‒ i have abstained from speaking here because the equal treatment of women in politics, business and religion is the basis of an enlightened and humanist society and is non-negotiable. the report interferes with the economic and political sovereignty of the state, in defiance of self-regulating processes in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur believes that the political power structures of the eastern partnership countries continue to show a marked absence of women, both in the executive and in the parliament, mainly due to discriminatory practices. the gender pay gap is substantial in principle, although there are large differences between the eastern partnership countries. the horizontal and vertical segregation of the labour market plays a decisive role in this context. in rural areas in particular, women are willing to accept low-paid and unregistered employment offers or to pursue self-employment. indeed, women represent a large proportion of entrepreneurs and business owners, but they face the same obstacles as in the eu, mainly due to the prevalence of gender stereotypes and male-dominated sectors. the equal treatment of women in politics, business and religion is the basis of an enlightened and humanistic society and is non-negotiable. the rapporteur, in disregard of self-regulating processes in the labour market, is interfering with the economic and political sovereignty of states and is pushing women in the eastern partnership countries into the role of victims (gender stereotypes) in a generalized way.
in writing. the programme of the slovak presidency of the council of the eu was essentially based on four priorities. these were an economically strong europe, a modern single market, a sustainable migration and asylum policy and a globally committed europe. the slovak presidency also took part in major decisions such as the ratification of the paris agreement on climate change and the ceta trade agreement, the fight against tax avoidance and the preparation of the 2017 budget of the european union. the presidency also called for changes to the stability and growth pact. the slovak authorities have not been able to implement all the elements of this comprehensive programme convincingly, although in some respects slovakia can be considered a pioneer. the programme of the presidency was based on three principles. the first principle was to achieve concrete results, the second to prevent the fragmentation and fragmentation of the member states of the european union, and the third to restore citizens' confidence in the european project. the slovak presidency of the council is facing a period of great challenges. after brexit, it became clear that there must be a debate on the future of the union, solutions to the ongoing migration crisis and the integrity of the schengen area must be restored. but these problems cannot be solved within a council presidency.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not today is a very important day for human rights. we have awarded the sakharov prize to two great women, and now we are discussing the human rights report 2015, which we will be voting on tomorrow. the year 2015 may one day be called by historians a very decisive year. it was the year of the refugee crisis that put a lasting challenge to solidarity in europe, and it was the year that made the diminishing importance of europe in foreign policy increasingly visible. it is not surprising that the human rights situation has not really improved this year. i do not want to stop at this fatalistic assessment. and because it is precisely in times of crisis that the foundations should be visible, and the foundations of the european union, of europe, are democracy, the rule of law and human rights. the echr and the charter of fundamental rights these are the foundations, these are the unique attributes of europe. it is important that foreign policy makes this visible. the report therefore deals not only with the global human rights situation but also, and especially, with the various instruments at the disposal of the eda. like my predecessors panzeri and preda, i have chosen a systematic approach. it is not intended to be a list of different incidents in different conflict zones. there is an annex to that, and we have the very efficient instrument of urgent resolutions. i therefore ask the house not to vote for amendments which again call this principle into question. it is positive that the union is clearly committed to human rights. we have very important instruments: the european union delegations, the human rights dialogues and the special representative for human rights. stavros lambrinidis has done an excellent job in 2015, as always, and he is a good, important ally of the european parliament. the delegations work very hard and we have seen again and again in missions how much the union's representatives value human rights. however, in the interests of coherence and credibility of our human rights policy, it would be important to pay greater attention to the increasingly frequent constraints on civil society. it's a big threat, spreading like a plague. the point is simple: without a strong civil society, there can be no effective protection of human rights. so it is very important to strengthen this, as well as supporting human rights activists who not only need legal advice, but who also need visits to prisons and who should also be accompanied in court proceedings. the report also has a number of content-related priorities. migration and displacement were particularly highlighted 2015 was very important in this context. we have also dealt in particular with the problem of discrimination. what we have already stated in the amsterdam treaty is that discrimination should be at the centre of our policy and should also be at the centre of human rights policy. it's very important that there are consequences. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. the report was the subject of intense debate. experts and human rights organisations were involved. we have had 866 amendments in all. i would like to thank the staff who have helped us to do this. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs in particular for the constructive and pleasant working atmosphere.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to thank all the members for having dealt with the various aspects which i was unable to deal with because of lack of time in their speeches. i would like to thank in particular the high commissioner, mrs mogherini, for making it clear that human rights violations do not make countries safer, but rather the opposite, that wherever human rights, democracy and the rule of law are not respected, a major security gap is created. this is a very important statement, which should of course also be taken into account in everyday politics. i would like to make three points in brief: it was pointed out to law enforcement, and i mean, a tool is only really good if it has teeth. in this sense, we must do a great deal to improve these instruments. it's also good to see new developments. we have been dealing with drones in this report. this is something quite new, where, as it were, outside the normal legal framework, human rights violations can suddenly occur, where, as it were, machines take responsibility. that's something we haven't really seen before. we've covered these issues in great detail, as well, such as freedom of expression on the internet, hate speech. here too, you should be more active. of course, we have spoken about human rights violations in the eu in response to some of our colleagues who are no longer here. i would remind you all that you yourself voted yesterday on the report on fundamental rights, that is to say, on the very thing you criticised afterwards. let me just say this for a second: we should think about how we can reform this human rights report. it would have to be more timely, it would have to be more streamlined and more precise, and it would have to provide better communication possibilities also with the commission. the role of the commissioner for human rights is essential here. let me conclude by saying that, while we have spoken so long today about human rights, we should also think about the people of aleppo, who are now experiencing terrible things.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union's responsibility in the world does not begin or end at the european union's external borders. we must become much more aware than in the past of our shared responsibility as a global player. the strength of our neighbours is our strength, and the weakness of our neighbours would also be our weakness. i therefore thank elmar brok for the many concrete recommendations in his report on the multiple and complex crossborder challenges in our neighbourhood, how to tackle them, ensure the security of our citizens and make the european union more effective, efficient, better and thus more credible and stronger in the three pillars of external action - diplomacy, development and defence. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet ready to take a decision on the matter. unfortunately, the blocking unanimity still hampers our resolve and our ability to act and react. unfortunately, the member states of the union still refuse to provide the necessary budget and the necessary powers. unfortunately, member states are mainly producing, researching and investing side by side rather than together, and unfortunately the growing populism and nationalism are daily weakening our credibility and ability to act. let's put this state of affairs behind us and do what we decide!
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – madam president, commissioner, colleagues, in 2011 the parliament made a really historic vote. it was the first time after the lisbon treaty that this parliament, which now has to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ in consent procedures, blocked the textile protocol with uzbekistan, because of child labour and forced labour to a degree that is simply unacceptable. there was horrendous abuse of children and adults for the main export product: our clothes and other textiles. since then there have been lots of improvements. the government has started to work with the international labour organisation in the decent work country programme. in october 2016, the ilo convention on freedom of association was ratified. nevertheless, huge problems still persist. it is right that child labour has decreased and is now not socially acceptable anymore, but we have plenty of reports from independent civil society organisations which say that forced labour is still there in an amount which simply does not make the glass half-full. in that sense, from the committee on foreign affairs (afet) side, we were also pushing for having put in good cooperation with rapporteur arena from committee on international trade (inta) to have a resolution, and this resolution has some very important points in it. nevertheless, in the end i had to withdraw my name from the consent procedure because i simply could not say yes to giving consent. i will also ask tomorrow for a postponement of the vote until the final reports from the international labour organisation and the independent civil society organisations are there, because they have been working and the harvest only stopped a couple of weeks ago, so we do not have the final reports yet. it was a debate we had at the beginning of our negotiations in the parliament, and we cannot have that vote now. hopefully, i will get support from my colleagues tomorrow for that because, as i said, the glass is unfortunately not yet half-full.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, peru and colombia already have the trade agreement, it's already in force, and now ecuador is joining. i would like to remind you that in 2015 we adopted a resolution in parliament in which we demanded that we agree to ecuador's accession in the first place. these core requirements are about the inclusion of binding sustainability chapters, which are very important to us. it is about human rights, it is about ilo labour standards, it is about multilateral environmental conventions. we must really insist that they be respected. unfortunately, we are now hearing from ngos and human rights activists that things are not working as well in ecuador as we imagine. human rights violations are a constant occurrence. there are also problems with the right to freedom of association and the right to form trade unions. so here we see a big problem. but it is also regrettable that the implementation of this sustainability chapter in peru and colombia has not yet worked as well. we must do more here too. i think that it is not just a matter of negotiations, which are concluded and then what is written on paper is appropriate. we must insist that the agreement be respected after it has been concluded. here i am very clear that we must impose sanctions against violations, that we must also have a monitoring system, monitoring systems so that we can respect all these important human rights. i call on the governments of ecuador and peru to take their commitments and commitments seriously and to honour them, so that this trade agreement has a positive effect on the people, so that there are human and labour rights that are actually respected.
in writing. the continuing difficult situation on agricultural markets is now causing massive dislocations. i welcome this landmark resolution of parliament which makes the safeguarding of farm incomes a top priority. farmers must be able to calculate again and earn an income above the price of the product. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quotas are not exceeded. the total selling and the under-selling at the expense of farmers must finally come to an end. the position of farmers in the food chain can be strengthened by taking concrete measures to strengthen agricultural organisations, by setting up european agricultural price monitoring centres and by creating a new legal framework which puts the protection mechanisms of the common agricultural policy above competition law. i therefore call on the european commission to come forward with proposals quickly and unbureaucratically to put an end to price dumping. this parliament's resolution is a strong signal of support for family farms. we are fully behind the farmers. quality food has a price. price dumping, on the other hand, is just a door opener for mass production and uniform food!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in preparation for tomorrow's council debate, it can only be said once again that turkey is neither geographically nor culturally part of europe. turkey can never become a member of the european union for this reason alone. it is a matter of great concern to me that the commission is ignoring a majority decision of the european parliament. there is a majority decision to at least freeze the negotiations, but that does not concern the commission. the commission is also turning a blind eye to what is happening in turkey. i am not even talking about mr erdoğan's bigotry, i am talking about tens of thousands of arrests and the removal and dismissal of over a hundred thousand people who are politically unpopular. i am talking about hatred against ethnic minorities in turkey, i am talking about violence against women, i am talking about an attack on the freedom of the press and many other things. so remember that you can negotiate something like a partnership with turkey, but never membership of the european union!
i have to say, madam president, better with europe than without europe: that was the simple conclusion of the austrian presidential elections. but now, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the council, the commission and, above all, the european parliament have done the right thing. the average unemployment rate among young people in europe has fallen, but it is still unbearably high: 18.4% of young people in europe are unemployed on average. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. 13.2 million so-called needs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i know that the youth guarantee fund will be increased by eur 2 billion by 2020, but this is obviously a drop in the bucket. it is the right measure, but it is far too little invested in young people. that's why the investment issue is so incredibly important, because there's more going on here. so tomorrow, not only evaluate the efsi, the juncker fund, named after the president of the commission himself, but think about how it can be used more efficiently and effectively so that new funds are eventually used to really finance projects that reach the citizens.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to tell you. ladies and gentlemen, we have not lacked resolutions or proposals on this matter of the subjects to be discussed tomorrow. we simply lack the political will! nationalism, populism and the policy of isolation still block the implementation of the agreements. and yet unanimity still blocks the necessary european unity. i therefore say very clearly: agree to what has been proposed and do what has been decided. the fight against unemployment is not just a question of money, but has structural causes. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts in the field of education and training. we must learn from each other and act together to develop the european union from monetary union to economic, social and investment union. the same applies to defence policy. i welcome the action plan that we are working together on research, on procurement, on funding. but we have a glaring implementation deficit. we have too few staff in all countries, too little money, too little efficiency, and the lack of cooperation costs us twenty-five to a hundred billion euros a year. let's get to these problems. we know how to do it and what to do. let's do this
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on behalf of my group and according to rule 190 of our rules of procedure, which calls for adjournment of a debate and vote, i would like to ask for a postponement of this vote. the reason for this is that the reports on the cotton harvest and on forced labour in uzbekistan during the cotton harvest, which has just ended recently, have not been finalised yet. the international labour organization will finalise its reports in january 2017, and we have reports from several civil society independent monitors which are also saying that, despite some improvements, forced labour is still being done, with the authorities demanding that people fulfil quotas in those harvests. so i think it would be due process for us to wait for our vote on the consent on the textile protocol until those reports are out from the international labour organization’s independent monitors and to postpone it. i hope members will follow me and my group on this.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report. this report votes on the european parliament's first reading position in favour of a purely technical amendment to annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848, as poland will be undertaking a fundamental reform of its national restructuring law. however, the annexes may only be amended by the ordinary legislative procedure. the european parliament therefore withdraws its position on this subject and only slightly modifies the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ since this report is a purely technical amendment, the european parliament only expresses its opinion on it and only slightly modifies the commission proposal, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the european parliament's position at first reading in favour of a purely technical amendment.
in writing. ‒ since this report is a purely technical amendment, the european parliament only expresses its opinion on it and only slightly modifies the commission proposal, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the agreement in order to extend the provisions of the agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, in view of the expiry of the bilateral textiles agreement. uzbekistan has joined the ilo and has made good progress in combating child and forced labour in a short time, which should be taken into account. i therefore support the conclusion of a textile trade agreement with uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ this report is a legislative proposal in favour of the conclusion of a textile agreement with uzbekistan. the government of uzbekistan has made considerable progress in improving working conditions in the textile sector in a short period of time, which i think should be rewarded. that is why i have agreed to this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because uzbekistan has made good progress in the fight against child and forced labour in a short period of time. i think that should be supported.
in writing. ‒ this report is a legislative proposal in favour of the conclusion of a textile agreement with uzbekistan. the government of uzbekistan has made considerable progress in improving working conditions in the textile sector in a short period of time, which i think should be rewarded. that is why i have agreed to this report.
in writing. ‒ i have given my assent to this non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part. uzbekistan has joined the ilo and has made good progress in combating child and forced labour in a short time, which should be taken into account. i therefore support the conclusion of a textile trade agreement with uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ in december 2011, the european parliament decided to defer approval of a protocol on trade in textiles with uzbekistan pending the preparation of an interim report. the report should in particular examine the allegation of child and forced labour. according to recent observation by the ilo (2015), child labour in cotton harvesting is still rare and forced labour is no longer a problem. i have agreed to this report after the government of uzbekistan has made considerable progress in a short time in improving working conditions in the textile sector.
in writing. ‒ i also spoke positively about this report, as uzbekistan has made good progress in the fight against child and forced labour in a short period of time. i think that should be supported.
in writing. ‒ in december 2011, the european parliament decided to defer approval of a protocol on trade in textiles with uzbekistan pending the preparation of an interim report. the report should in particular examine the allegation of child and forced labour. according to recent observation by the ilo (2015), child labour in cotton harvesting is still rare and forced labour is no longer a problem. i have agreed to this report after the government of uzbekistan has made considerable progress in a short time in improving working conditions in the textile sector.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report. the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement was signed in 2012 and has been applied with both countries since august and march 2013 respectively. ecuador is now seeking to join the agreement. this is all the more important as the continued weakness in the price of oil, which accounts for over 60% of the country's exports, adds to economic and government revenues. in addition, ecuador will lose its gsp+ status in december 2016 and will therefore be significantly restricted in its trade opportunities with the eu.
in writing. ‒ the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement was signed in 2012 and has been applied with both countries since august and march 2013 respectively. ecuador is now seeking to accede to the convention. this is all the more important as the continued weakness in the price of oil, which accounts for some 60% of the country's exports, and the appreciation of the us dollar, the currency used to settle transactions with the main export partners, are adding to the economy and government revenues. in addition, ecuador will lose its gsp+ status in december 2016 and will therefore be significantly restricted in its trade opportunities with the eu. the country exports only about 12 billion us dollars worth of goods, more than half of which is exported to the usa, with other major trading partners being south american countries. the economic consequences for the eu are negligible and the agreement is actually of symbolic value, so i have brought this report with me.
in writing. ‒ i support the present agreement, firstly because there is no significant impact on the european union and ecuador is not deprived of its economic development potential.
in writing. ‒ the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement was signed in 2012 and has been applied with both countries since august and march 2013 respectively. ecuador is now seeking to accede to the convention. this is all the more important as the continued weakness in the price of oil, which accounts for some 60% of the country's exports, and the appreciation of the us dollar, which is used to settle transactions with the main export partners, are adding to the economy and government revenues. in addition, ecuador will lose its gsp+ status in december 2016 and will therefore be significantly restricted in its trade opportunities with the eu. the country exports only about 12 billion us dollars worth of goods, more than half of which is exported to the usa, with other major trading partners being south american countries. the economic consequences for the eu are negligible and the agreement is actually of symbolic value, so i have brought this report with me.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. the report includes strategic and operational cooperation and thus also an enhanced exchange of information between europol and georgia. on the one hand, such an agreement would be desirable, but it does not exclude the exchange of personal data, which i reject.
in writing. ‒ the proposal includes strategic and operational cooperation and thus also an enhanced exchange of information between europol and georgia. on the one hand, such an agreement would be desirable. however, this agreement does not exclude the exchange of personal data and i abstained because of the concerns about europol.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this agreement because, although such an agreement would be desirable, it does not exclude the exchange of personal data.
in writing. ‒ the proposal includes strategic and operational cooperation and thus also an enhanced exchange of information between europol and georgia. on the one hand, such an agreement would be desirable. however, this agreement does not exclude the exchange of personal data and i abstained because of the concerns about europol.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report. the aim is to provide eur 856 000 to reintegrate 250 workers from the former borsal s.a., a supplier of car parts in the valencia region, into the labour market and thus create new prospects for the people concerned.
in writing. ‒ eur 856 000 will be allocated to reintegrate 250 workers from the former borsal s.a., a supplier of car parts in the valencia region, into the labour market and to create new prospects for the workers concerned. i have voted in favour of this report because it calls for the eu to provide funds to integrate these workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a proposal that is entirely in the interests of workers and i think it is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ eur 856 000 will be allocated to reintegrate 250 workers from the former borsal s.a., a supplier of car parts in the valencia region, into the labour market and to create new prospects for the workers concerned. i have voted in favour of this report because it calls for the eu to provide funds to integrate these workers into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report. the present regulation was adopted before the planned liberalisation of the railway market, at a time when cross-border rail transport was not yet an issue, as rail transport was mainly carried out within national borders by integrated companies. the aim of the regulation was to create a level playing field between railway undertakings and undertakings in other modes of transport. the commission considers that the possibility of compensation to railway undertakings no longer takes account of the current situation in the railway sector. furthermore, non-discriminatory application can no longer be guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package aims at market-based liberalisation of the european railway sector. the application of a general tendering procedure in the field of public procurement is intended to save public money and to remove barriers to entry for smaller competitors. however, in exceptional cases, the general obligation to tender may be waived and contracts may be awarded directly. in future, infrastructure managers will have to be effectively independent in order to ensure equal access to infrastructure for railway undertakings. railway undertakings continue to be required to comply with union law, national law and collective agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i cannot support some of the points in it. for example, one criticism would be the unconditional possibility for transport authorities to provide transport services themselves. they should therefore also be subject to the obligation to submit a tender.
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package aims at market-based liberalisation of the european railway sector. the application of a general tendering procedure in the field of public procurement is intended to save public money and to remove barriers to entry for smaller competitors. however, in exceptional cases, the general obligation to tender may be waived and contracts may be awarded directly. in future, infrastructure managers will have to be effectively independent in order to ensure equal access to infrastructure for railway undertakings. railway undertakings continue to be required to comply with union law, national law and collective agreements.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report. regulation 1370/2007 regulates the conditions for public service provision in the public transport of passengers, both national and cross-border. the competent transport authority may impose public service obligations on the operator of a transport service of general interest and grant compensation for them. in the absence of such a system, the commission would not have considered the aid to be compatible with the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package aims at market-based liberalisation of the european railway sector. the application of a general tendering procedure in the field of public procurement is intended to save public money and to remove barriers to entry for smaller competitors. however, in exceptional cases, the general obligation to tender may be waived and contracts may be awarded directly. in future, infrastructure managers will have to be effectively independent in order to ensure equal access to infrastructure for railway undertakings. railway undertakings continue to be required to comply with union law, national law and collective agreements.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because this is merely a repetition of the annex to the legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package aims at market-based liberalisation of the european railway sector. the application of a general tendering procedure in the field of public procurement is intended to save public money and to remove barriers to entry for smaller competitors. however, in exceptional cases, the general obligation to tender may be waived and contracts may be awarded directly. in future, infrastructure managers will have to be effectively independent in order to ensure equal access to infrastructure for railway undertakings. railway undertakings continue to be required to comply with union law, national law and collective agreements.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this proposal to amend directive 2012/34. in addition to opening up the domestic rail passenger markets, a stricter separation between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings is also to be introduced in order to avoid conflicts of interest and cross-subsidisation. the aim is to ensure equal access to infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package aims at market-based liberalisation of the european railway sector. the application of a general tendering procedure in the field of public procurement is intended to save public money and to remove barriers to entry for smaller competitors. however, in exceptional cases, the general obligation to tender may be waived and contracts may be awarded directly. in future, infrastructure managers will have to be effectively independent in order to ensure equal access to infrastructure for railway undertakings. railway undertakings continue to be required to comply with union law, national law and collective agreements.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because some points are not clearly defined in the report.
in writing. ‒ the fourth railway package aims at market-based liberalisation of the european railway sector. the application of a general tendering procedure in the field of public procurement is intended to save public money and to remove barriers to entry for smaller competitors. however, in exceptional cases, the general obligation to tender may be waived and contracts may be awarded directly. in future, infrastructure managers will have to be effectively independent in order to ensure equal access to infrastructure for railway undertakings. railway undertakings continue to be required to comply with union law, national law and collective agreements.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report. the commission proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, better connected and sustainable operation of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) by creating a framework in which all ports can improve their performance and adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and port operations and the creation of an attractive environment for investment in ports. the commission intends to use this regulation to counter weak competitive pressure and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, better connected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) by creating a framework in which all ports can improve their performance and adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and port operations and the creation of an attractive environment for investment in ports. the commission intends to use this regulation to counter weak competitive pressure and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services. the social provisions for the labour law regimes of ports have been substantially removed from this regulation and are discussed by the sectoral social dialogue committee for ports at eu level, which started its work on 19 june 2013. the rapporteur nevertheless considers it important to take a clear stand against irregular employment and for better training and safety conditions. compliance with national social standards was added as a minimum criterion. in addition, member states should ensure the rights of workers in the event of a transfer of undertakings or establishments. that is why i have brought the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i regard the suggestions for improvement as very positive. the improvement of working conditions on the basis of binding national, regional or local social standards to be granted would be an important point.
in writing. ‒ the commission's proposal aims to contribute to a more efficient, better connected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) by creating a framework in which all ports can improve their performance and adapt to changing transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and port operations and the creation of an attractive environment for investment in ports. the commission intends to use this regulation to counter weak competitive pressure and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services. the social provisions for the labour law regimes of ports have been substantially removed from this regulation and are discussed by the sectoral social dialogue committee for ports at eu level, which started its work on 19 june 2013. the rapporteur nevertheless considers it important to take a clear stand against irregular employment and for better training and safety conditions. compliance with national social standards was added as a minimum criterion. in addition, member states should ensure the rights of workers in the event of a transfer of undertakings or establishments. that is why i have brought the report.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report. the rfcs fund provides a major contribution to annual r & d investment in the coal and steel sector, with some eur 50 million. it promotes activities that bring together partners from industry, smes, leading research centres and universities from across the european union to build knowledge and stimulate innovation in the sector. the research projects financed cover production processes, the use and conservation of resources, improvements in environmental protection and safety at work in the sectors concerned. the commission has also called for greater transparency in line with the commission's rules.
in writing. ‒ i agreed to this report because it calls for more transparency and because it will make it easier for smes to access rfcs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is in favour of the austrian steel industry and small and medium-sized enterprises should have easier access to the research fund for coal and steel.
in writing. ‒ i agreed to this report because it calls for more transparency and, secondly, because it will make it easier for smes to access rfcs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the eu is also calling for the adoption of an eu asylum plan and for further military integration of european armed forces. i reject that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the rapporteur calls for legal migration, broad rights for lgbti people, full access to education and healthcare for migrants, and an interventionist policy on the part of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for full access to education, healthcare and much more for migrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the rapporteur calls for legal migration, broad rights for lgbti people, full access to education and healthcare for migrants, and an interventionist policy on the part of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, from the point of view of a neutral member state, it may give rise to conflicts of interest. the report examines the effective implementation of a common foreign and security policy and the various departments involved in this area. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the us. the report also deals with the creation of an eu army, the financial increase of the edf, the expansion of the athena mechanism and the creation of a european defence fund, and closer cooperation with nato.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the effective implementation of a common security and foreign policy and the different departments involved in this area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the rapporteur also calls for this to be reflected in the general foreign policy. the report also covers climate change, cybersecurity, the situation in syria, the situation in other potentially vulnerable states and the situation with russia. the report also deals with the creation of an eu army, the financial increase of the edf, the expansion of the athena mechanism and the creation of a european defence fund, and closer cooperation with nato. i voted against this report because it is contrary to austria's neutrality.
in writing. ‒ from austria's point of view, this report is to be rejected in the strongest possible terms as it is contrary to neutrality. the report is also very anti-russian. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the effective implementation of a common security and foreign policy and the different departments involved in this area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the rapporteur also calls for this to be reflected in the general foreign policy. the report also covers climate change, cybersecurity, the situation in syria, the situation in other potentially vulnerable states and the situation with russia. the report also deals with the creation of an eu army, the financial increase of the edf, the expansion of the athena mechanism and the creation of a european defence fund, and closer cooperation with nato. i voted against this report because it is contrary to austria's neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to this report. european farmers are increasingly exposed to risks and uncertainties (plant and animal diseases, weather conditions, pest infestations, etc.). the fluctuations in agricultural products lead to price fluctuations which are not in the interests of producers or consumers. to counter this uncertainty, more attention is being paid to the instruments of risk management in agriculture (e.g. the cap).
in writing. ‒ european farmers are increasingly exposed to risks and uncertainties (plant and animal diseases, weather conditions, pest infestations). the fluctuations in agricultural products lead to price fluctuations which are of no benefit to producers or consumers. to counter this uncertainty, more attention is being paid to the instruments of risk management in agriculture (e.g. the cap). the cap objectives 2014-2020: increased competitiveness, improved sustainability, greater efficiency = combating volatility and stabilising incomes. the instruments of the current cap have been used by some 12 member states. in total, public funds amounted to eur 2.7 billion (eur 1.7 billion from the rural development funds). the rapporteur considers that the risk management instrument of the second pillar of the current cap is totally inadequate to limit the impact of price fluctuations on farmers' incomes, and therefore calls for a revision of the current cap. as the demands include the strengthening of agricultural sectors and better protection of farmers' incomes (instruments of risk management), i have included this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the instruments need to be adapted to the current situation in order to combat price fluctuations.
in writing. ‒ european farmers are increasingly exposed to risks and uncertainties (plant and animal diseases, weather conditions, pest infestations). the fluctuations in agricultural products lead to price fluctuations which are of no benefit to producers or consumers. to counter this uncertainty, more attention is being paid to the instruments of risk management in agriculture (e.g. the cap). the cap objectives 2014-2020: increased competitiveness, improved sustainability, greater efficiency = combating volatility and stabilising incomes. the instruments of the current cap have been used by some 12 member states. in total, public funds amounted to eur 2.7 billion (eur 1.7 billion from the rural development funds). the rapporteur considers that the risk management instrument of the second pillar of the current cap is totally inadequate to limit the impact of price fluctuations on farmers' incomes and therefore calls for a revision of the current cap. as the demands include the strengthening of agricultural sectors and better protection of farmers' incomes (instruments of risk management), i have included this report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the greek parliament has just adopted the 2017 budget by a narrow majority. the budget is expected to grow by 2.7% with expenditure of eur 56 billion. that's pretty good. we only have 1.5% in the eurozone. the draft budget also provides for tax increases of 1 billion and leads to cuts of 5.7 billion. the greek government has been negotiating with the donors since yesterday to pay out a further tranche of the third aid package of eur 2.8 billion, and we have heard it today: the key issue is the implementation of structural reforms in the labour market, pensions and taxation. the secondary issue is the discussion on the debt-sustainability of greece and the level of the primary surplus. the eurogroup, and in particular the imf, are now demanding that greece impose massive restrictions on the right to strike, on dismissals, on the minimum wage and, in particular, on the autonomy of trade unions in terms of collective agreements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. we can only hope that a compromise can be found here for the good of greece, but also for the good of ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.)
i have to say, madam president, strong trade unions and a functioning social partnership are the key to success in europe's leading economies. that is, this applies to germany, sweden, austria and so on. i am sure that this is also true for greece, that we are not applying double standards here. one third of the greek population is affected by poverty, and that is a generous estimate. one in two young people is unemployed. the people are definitely suffering from the reforms. you've heard that from everyone here, more or less. now it's about the power: the right to strike, relaxations of protection against dismissal and the curtailment of trade union rights. these are demands that are being put on the table, which make no economic sense and are therefore of course not good for the population. the group of experts set up also recommends strengthening and improving the collective and individual rights of workers. that means, please, leave the trade union rights and the right to strike alone. this is something that should not be measured with two different standards in europe, whether it is in sweden, austria or greece.
i have to say, madam president, i'd like to know who the master is behind mr. legutko. a member of parliament? is he a member of the european parliament?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. poland is a great country and without poland, europe would be a torso. the developments in this country are therefore of european importance, particularly as regards the rule of law. our discussion is not an interference with national sovereignty. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in employment. we are concerned that the constitutional crisis is still unresolved, and that the situation is becoming more dramatic from week to week. poland does not need legal anarchy. poland needs an independent constitutional court. that's important in these turbulent times in the country. it is a worrying development, how the whole thing is spiraling. there is still time for the polish government to approach the opposition and take the recommendations of the venice commission seriously. a divided poland is not only harmful to europe, but above all to poland itself. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would say to these people that we owe them a great debt of gratitude, that they feel they are europeans, that we live in a common european house and that we want to build this common house on democratic principles, on the rule of law.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the allegedly ingenious plan to solve the refugee crisis involves bringing rejected refugees from greece to turkey and accepted asylum seekers to greece. but this is not a solution, it is just a shift in the problem. i don't know of any sovereign country that has come here and given another country the authority to decide who is eligible for asylum. the union is obviously doing this because it does not want to control and protect the frontiers on its own. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission itself has given the example of 578 returns since june, a ridiculous 4% of those who are brought to greece. the deal has only two reasons: on the one hand to cover up the catastrophic welcome culture and on the other hand to ensure the political survival of mrs merkel.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i will never forget that moment in june of this year in the sinjar mountains. my yazidi friends had taken me to a place off a main road. the remains of several hundred people were buried there. no one knows why they were killed here. they were on the run, and they were standing in the way of daesh. this is one of many places in iraq and syria. nor are they nameless places - places that must be named and will be named when the events are clarified and the evidence is secured, as in katyn, babi jar, lidice and oradour. we must not let the crimes be buried. we must make them places of remembrance. we owe it to the people who were murdered here. and that is necessary for people to have a new life in the region. and, ladies and gentlemen, it is a human right to be buried with dignity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if there's a request for a check, you should follow it. and if you do speak, you must tell us exactly what vote we are taking. i just wasn't sure. please repeat!
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the revision of the visa suspension mechanism. the rapporteur calls for the whole commission proposal to be revised and reiterates that suspension should only cover certain groups of third country nationals and that implementing powers for suspension should be conferred on the commission. this is not satisfactory, as the suspension of the mechanism is only called for if the recognition rate of asylum applications is less than 3%. in 2016 alone, for example, the recognition rate in austria was 47.6 percent. that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to revise the visa suspension mechanism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the asylum system is not disrupted, and that the commission is not forced to take action in this area.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken against the present report, which calls for the suspension of the mechanism if the recognition rate of asylum applications is less than 3%. in 2016 alone, the recognition rate in austria was 47.6 percent.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to revise the visa suspension mechanism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the asylum system is not disrupted, and that the commission is not forced to take action in this area.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution concerns the draft commission implementing directive on measures to protect against the introduction into and the spread of organisms harmful to plants or plant products. the rapporteur is of the opinion that the implementing directive envisaged by the commission is not in line with the applicable eu law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution because the european commission's proposal is considered sufficiently rigorous from a technical point of view and the exemptions for the import of fruit for industrial processing are already subject to strict conditions. import requirements should always be technically justified in order to protect european citrus production from new diseases not yet present in the eu. the proposed tightening in the resolution - in particular the additional review by efsa and the expected extension of the procedure - does not contribute to more plant protection, but rather indicates a hidden import ban.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur is of the opinion that the implementing directive envisaged by the commission is not in line with regulation (eu) 2016/2031. the rapporteur is right to point out that regulation (eu) 2016/2031 replaces the legal basis of the proposed implementing directive, namely directive 2000/29, but only in december 2019. however, since protection against pests must not be subject to a faulty legal assessment, i have submitted this request.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the rapporteur's intention is correct and because protection against plant pests must not be subject to a flawed legal assessment.
in writing. ‒ the rapporteur is of the opinion that the implementing directive envisaged by the commission is not in line with regulation (eu) 2016/2031. the rapporteur is right to point out that the legal basis for the proposed implementing directive rl 2000/29 is in fact replaced by regulation (eu) 2016/2031, but only in december 2019. however, since protection against pests must not be subject to a faulty legal assessment, i have submitted this request.
in writing. ‒ thalidomide has long been sold as a sleeping and sedative drug under the brand names contergan and softenon. in the late 1950s/early 1960s, malformations of infants occurred due to unknown side effects. the well-known contergan scandal followed. since thalidomide also has anti-tumor, anti-inflammatory and anti-vascular properties, it is still used under strict conditions in specific diseases. however, since i believe that support for the victims of thalidomide is important, i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ i also support this resolution because i believe that the victims of the contergan scandal should be given financial support. the manufacturer of the contraband, grünenthal, should pay compensation to the victims.
in writing. ‒ thalidomide has long been sold as a sleeping and sedative drug under the brand names contergan and softenon. in the late 1950s/early 1960s, malformations of infants occurred due to unknown side effects. the well-known contergan scandal followed. since thalidomide also has anti-tumor, anti-inflammatory and anti-vascular properties, it is still used under strict conditions in specific diseases. however, since i believe that support for the victims of thalidomide is important, i voted in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ childhood cancer is the most common cause of death by disease in children over one year of age. 6 000 young people die of cancer in the eu. due to the effects of chemotherapy drugs prescribed in high toxic doses and currently administered, two thirds of survivors experience treatment-related adverse reactions and up to 50% of survivors experience serious adverse reactions. the industry lacks incentives to produce paediatric medicines. the current legal framework (eu regulation) is often not properly respected, as medicinal products are developed under typical pathological conditions that are met in adults but not in children. the aim of this motion for a resolution is to revise this legal framework. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ i am very much in favour of creating an incentive system for research into paediatric cancer medicines and support the present call.
in writing. ‒ childhood cancer is the most common cause of death by disease in children over one year of age. 6 000 young people die of cancer in the eu. due to the effects of chemotherapy drugs prescribed in high toxic doses and currently administered, two thirds of survivors experience treatment-related adverse reactions and up to 50% of survivors experience serious adverse reactions. the industry lacks incentives to produce paediatric medicines. the current legal framework (eu regulation) is often not properly respected, as medicinal products are developed under typical pathological conditions that are met in adults but not in children. the aim of this motion for a resolution is to revise this legal framework. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ the annual report on the activities of the committee on petitions aims to provide an assessment of the petitions submitted in 2015 and of the relations with other institutions, as well as a detailed presentation. on the positive side, petitions strengthen the principle of direct democracy. the rapporteur regrets, however, that the citizens of poland and the united kingdom are still not protected by the eu charter of fundamental rights. it also stresses that the european citizens' initiative is intended to further the integration process. for these reasons i shall vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because, unfortunately, polish citizens are still not protected by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the european citizens' initiative is designed to promote the process of european integration.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the opening of european airspace to third country airlines. the original text of the committee on transport strongly criticises the commission and the council for a lack of transparency in the negotiation of air service agreements with third countries. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ following strong condemnation and criticism of the commission and the council for their lack of transparency in the negotiation of air services agreements with third countries, i have supported this motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it strongly criticises the council's lack of transparency in its approach to the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ following strong condemnation and criticism of the commission and the council for their lack of transparency in the negotiation of air services agreements with third countries, i have supported this motion.
