mr president, before declaring the agenda approved, i would like to make the following observation: last week, at the conference of presidents, we discussed the question of denmark, whose commissioner is here, although she has nothing to do with what is happening. this is extremely worrying, because measures are being taken in this country which, in the eyes of quite a number of us, constitute infringements. the situation in denmark is worrying in that measures are being taken, which are due to be adopted on 26 january, which, in any case, seem to some of us to be in contradiction with the values of the union. we discussed this in the conference of presidents and agreed on the following procedure: tonight - i mean tonight - the committee on civil liberties would hear a representative of the danish government and, following that meeting, the coordinators of the committee on civil liberties would meet and decide whether or not plenary debate time is necessary. we note that we still do not know whether the committee on civil liberties will hear a representative of the danish government. anyway, it's sure not gonna be tonight what we agreed. so it's not going to happen tonight and it's certain that the coordinators are not going to meet tonight. in this case, mr president, it seems to me that it is only right that we should have a plenary part-session to discuss the situation in denmark, since we still do not know whether or not the committee on civil liberties will, in its great wisdom, decide to meet a representative of the danish government on this subject. in other words, if we decide to play the clock, perhaps this parliament will debate in plenary, but post-factum, that is to say during the february i part-session, that is to say after the danish government's decision. so as much as - and i said this in the conference of presidents - i fully understand that the european commission can only take a decision on legal acts adopted in the member states, this parliament has - i think - a role as a warning sign. i therefore think that the debate should take place in this parliament before the danish government and the danish parliament decide, rather than afterwards. and since the conditions are not right for the debate in the libe committee, i think we should at least make provision for it in the plenary as a precautionary measure, and if, by chance, the libe committee were to meet and its coordinators consider that a debate has become unnecessary, we will cancel that debate in the plenary.
mr president, if i may be so bold as to ask for clarification, is this a meeting of either the coordinators or the whole of the committee on civil liberties in the presence of a representative of the danish government?
member of the commission.– madam president, today we are discussing the introduction of the new emissions testing procedures for cars in the eu. as you know, we have been working on this issue for quite a long time, but of course the volkswagen revelations gave action greater urgency. so i want to focus today’s debate on the impact of the decision that has been taken. we know that laboratory tests are not reliable. currently, the real nox emissions by diesel cars are, on average, 400 mg/km. that is 4-5 times higher than the legal emissions limit of euro 6 cars. that is why we have prepared some substantial changes to the regulatory framework. of course, it was demanding, but we have come up with a solution that is unique and fit for purpose. we will be the first in the world to introduce emissions tests on real roads under real driving conditions. our solutions will change the current measurement systems completely. it will no longer be possible to cheat in emissions tests. member states have reached a compromise. in the first stage emissions will be reduced to 168 mg/km by september next year and then, by january 2020, the limits will be reduced still further to 120 mg/km. you are well aware that the initial commission proposals were significantly more ambitious. i said on many occasions that i wanted more stringent ‘conformity factors’, but we could not convince the member states. still – and i want to underline this – i consider this agreement substantial progress because we are halving the nox emissions of diesel cars currently on the streets and, at the same time, we are forcing the automotive industry to speed up efforts to make cars cleaner and respect our common environmental goals. this is why we need the new rules as soon as possible, and this is why we need – and ask for – your agreement on the commission’s proposals on introducing real driving emissions tests in the eu. but, as i have also told you, we will not stop here. the real driving emissions tests are only one part of the package. we want to bring down nox emissions as much as possible. ultimately, if technological development allows, we want the cars to achieve the legal limit of 80 mg/km. that is why the legal proposal on the real driving emissions test procedures suggests a so-called annual revision clause. this means that, from 2020 onwards, the emission limits can be adjusted if technology improves. each year, the commission will assess the portable measurements technology: this is the technology which actually measures the emissions under real driving conditions. if this technology improves and allows for more exact emission measurements from 2020, we will have the legal possibility to bring the limits down further, to 80 mg/km. we intend to start this work already by the end of this year. it is possible to do so within this time limit because manufacturers design their vehicles well in advance of their production, so the vehicles on the roads in five years’ time are being designed today. that is why the existence of the annual revision clause provides legal certainty and an incentive for car manufacturers to design their cars with much lower emissions than the current limit. let me now come to the rest of the package. in the course of this year, the commission will propose a third regulatory package on real driving emissions testing to increase transparency. the idea is that the conformity factor of each vehicle is shown in its certificate of conformity: the consumer will be fully aware of the emissions performance of his/her vehicle. further, i promised to improve the type approval system and strengthen the independence of the control bodies. i will propose the text for the college discussion next week. the new rules will clarify and strengthen the recall system and safeguard procedures. the commission will be given the powers to intervene and comment on the corrective measures taken by the member states. the system of exchange of information and cooperation between enforcement authorities in the member states will be reinforced. the volkswagen case also showed that member states do not react in a very coordinated manner, so i intend to force member states to carry out market surveillance and controls of vehicles brought to the market. the quality and independence of the services responsible for approving vehicles will be strengthened. this means more quality checks, better cooperation and more and stronger tools to enforce the rules. we need to restore the confidence of our citizens in the type approval system and the car industry as a whole, as we have all agreed a few times before. this is why we urgently need new rules on type approval and emissions testing to be in place. last, but not least, a few words about euro 5/6 proposals: the parliament and council are currently negotiating some revisions of the euro 5 and euro 6 legislation, which is also the parent legislation to the act on introducing real driving emissions. in this context, the delegated powers to be given to the commission are being discussed. our objective is to have a very smooth and rapid implementation of the new real driving emissions procedure in the future. we are ready to work together with you, and of course with the council, to find a balanced solution because we want to achieve our environmental objectives and we are determined to respect the institutional balance. i know this is also important to you. i hope that my commitment is very clear to you. i want to tackle it in a very coherent and comprehensive way. i will be demanding and decisive towards our car manufacturers if they do not play the game. i am confident that this new framework will restore the effectiveness of our legal system to protect both consumers and the environment.
on behalf of the ppe group what's at stake here? we all know that. we want to reduce harmful nitrogen oxide emissions effectively and as quickly as possible. today - and the commissioner has just confirmed it - a euro 6 diesel car emits on average four times more nitrogen than the legal standard we adopted a few years ago and which came into force last year. so we need to reduce those emissions. we all agree on that. secondly: the new test, the real driving emission test, which determines how much cars emit in real driving conditions, must now finally be introduced. there is an agreement on that, and that is essential. we've wasted enough time. that test needs to be entered now. we welcome, of course, commissioner, that you are here pledging to come forward in the short term with a legislative proposal on additional supervision of national typeapproval, on that typeapproval. it is essential that national controls can be independently and robustly verified. i also refer to the debate on delegated and implementing acts. parliament wants to be directly involved in future revisions. we are asking for this to be done by means of delegated acts and not by means of implementing acts. and finally , this: smart car manufacturers, of course, don't wait to react. they are taking the leap and starting today to adapt their cars using the smartest technology for the benefit of the public health of everyone in europe. the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8)).
"blue card" is the answer. i don't know if that's very relevant here. the most important thing today is that we draw conclusions as quickly as possible from the situation that has arisen and from the scandals that have occurred. what is important is, first, that the nitrous oxide goes down as quickly as possible. we have a commission of inquiry to find out what went wrong. one of the conclusions will undoubtedly be that the control of type-approval must be tightened up, that there must be an independent and robust control of type-approval. we need to focus on what went wrong. that will be apparent during the work of the committee of inquiry. we must now concentrate on the question of how to get nitrous oxide down in the interest of the public health of all of us and the sooner the better. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" question. what is it? mr belet, what will be the position of your group when we have to vote on this objection in two weeks' time? will your group vote in favour of the general interest? will your group vote for public health? will your group take a real approach to the problem and ask the commission to come up with a real proposal? if you do not choose this, you will choose an increase from the existing 2007 standard of 80 to 168 mg per kilometre and to 120 mg from 2021. what will your group do?
"blue card" is the answer. thank you, mr staes, for this question. what our group will do is, of course, to vote for public health. you heard the commissioner . the average diesel car today, a new euro 6 diesel car, emits four times more than the legal standard we approved years ago. what we are aiming for is that in a year and a half and then two and a half years later we will move towards a substantial reduction, firstly a halving of the situation as it is today and then two years later towards a further reduction in nitrogen oxides. we have to look at what the nitrogen oxide emissions are today in real driving conditions and then what the decision is as it stands. that means that in the short term we must at least halve it and then we will continue to reduce it in the years to come. that's the path we're going to take.
on behalf of the s&d group, in the spirit of previous speakers, i do not need to argue why it is important that we finally get the real driving emission testing. but i want to be very clear, commissioner. our group voted for postponement and ensured that you have time - not much time - to come up with a better proposal than what you have presented today. you have said good things, i have no doubt of your good intentions, but there must be a more ambitious proposal. what is unacceptable is that some technical committee takes a decision which lowers the euro 6 standard, which we all agreed with the commission here ten years ago. we want you to think hard and come up with a better proposal. in particular, it is extremely important to achieve the conformity factor of 1, because then we will be able to respect the standards we have democratically agreed upon. so you still have a little time. i suggest you come up with some ambitious proposals.
good thing we have good investigative journalism now and then! today it was revealed that opel may also be cheating and that they are secretly modifying polluting models through a so-called upgrade. it has come to the point where a journalist from the flemish broadcasting corporation has to do the work of official control bodies. the trust and transparency are completely gone. it is time to take the consumer seriously. and, frankly, if i as a consumer have to choose between a car with a little more power or a little more life, if i have to choose between a car with more speed or the health of my children, i know what i'm choosing. i choose health, and car manufacturers should not make that choice for people. we are the parliament. we have an obligation to the citizens to ask for more ambition, to demand more ambition and to show more ambition.
i do not know if you are aware of it - otherwise there is always the enf group to remind you - but your report is dreamy and floating in the light of the recent invasion of migration resulting from your european union and its schengen treaty and from your open borders policy, which has led to disastrous and almost chaotic results in the past year, 2015. in the light of what happened in cologne, your report is naive and out of touch with the world. it is wrong to see cultural diversity as a value in itself. europe, not the european union - that is something else - europe as a cultural space and as a civilized continent needs to be aware of its own identity and to defend it openly, instead of allowing it to be watered down and open to incompatible values from all over the world. that's not the point.
i want to focus on a theme that will become increasingly important in the coming months, namely our savings, our savings. if a bank is in trouble now, our savings are protected up to 100 000 euros. the government is doing that today. in future, however, the banks are to assume that responsibility, that they will provide that protection. so the question is: will those banks also be more sensible about our savings? i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the plans for europe are that all the banks in the european union will now do this together. let's also be clear about what that means exactly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so that 's the question . how can we prevent this from happening? i am therefore very pleased that i will be able to see to that as shadow rapporteur for my group.
in writing. there is a need for concrete strategies at national and regional level to encourage a culture of female entrepreneurship. i am concerned about the abnormally low rate of female entrepreneurship: in 2012, women accounted for just 31% of entrepreneurs (10.3 million) in the eu-28 and female entrepreneurship tended more often to focus on sectors considered less profitable. in this context, i call on the commission and the member states to remove the obstacles to women's entrepreneurship, whether they are social or economic; and i ask the commission to come forward, before the end of 2016, with concrete measures (including legislative proposals) to increase women's participation in the labour market through improved work-life balance.
in writing. currently, more than 7 million young people aged 15 to 24 are not in employment, education or training. for many of them, victims of the banking and business crisis, the lack of skills is a structural barrier to accessing sustainable employment that will enable them to pursue a life project. i am deeply involved in the fight for jobs for farciennes and i see every day the human consequences that this can have. i therefore supported this report, which stresses that the development of individual skills and the dissemination of knowledge and skills are one of the elements of integrated social and employment policies. it is clear that schools, training bodies and, of course, companies must make this struggle for employment a priority. but the overall socioeconomic context is also essential. the commission has launched the youth guarantee. but it cannot take back what it has given from one hand and must commit itself to a genuine investment-based recovery policy which will reduce unemployment and poverty and finally give prospects for the future to millions of young europeans.
mr president, the president of the commission has just denounced the existence of a 29th state: that of the unemployed. we cannot accept this reality. we cannot tolerate more than seven million young people being unemployed and not in education or training. we cannot accept that more than 10% of young people leave school early. there are systems that facilitate the transition between school and employment. these systems have worked and are working in some member states. this is the case with the alternance training. it is unanimous, including at the level of the social partners. erasmus is also a real success in terms of training and mobility. this programme is a real incubator for europeans of the future. let us build on this success to meet the challenge of youth employment by launching a genuine european system of alternating training and by setting up a european framework for the mobility of apprentices. when solutions exist, we have a duty to implement them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the european union, and to extend it to cover the whole of the eu. the commission will also be able to use the european parliament's powers to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action. however, the privacy of the citizen is not lost sight of. this is evidenced by the compromise text on the data protection directive on police matters. the results on migration are meagre. the pilot project on the redistribution of asylum seekers across european countries is the only tangible result and even that is being undermined by the refusal of eastern european countries to take responsibility. europe's inability to effectively guard europe's external borders has made it difficult to deal with the migration crisis. i therefore hope that under the dutch presidency a systematic push-back policy can be put into effect. we must stop the unrestrained influx by systematically sending back smuggling boats at sea. moreover, asylum seekers who already enjoyed de facto protection in a transit country may no longer be granted asylum in europe. of course europe must do its part, but europe cannot solve all the problems. that is why we need to set a maximum number of asylum seekers to be accepted, after which only the most vulnerable can come to europe through resettlement. that's how we take out human traffickers. in conclusion, i would like to say that we are very disappointed that you have not mentioned the uk's demand for reform of the eu. this is important for the future of europe.
the luxembourg presidency has ended, as all the presidencies here have ended - we hear that again today - with congratulations, with patting our shoulders and with shouts of how well it all went and how well we all did. but above all, an ode to the progress that has been made, as you say here. the european union must always make progress, always more european union, and you have unfortunately succeeded in doing so to some extent. you have put the fiscal union, the tax union, on the back burner, probably out of frustration with the accusations surrounding the luxleaks scandal. you have also made the european union's open borders policy more effective than ever. so i can't congratulate you. the only hope is that you will be criticised by the eurocrats in this hemisphere and by the eu fanatics in this hemisphere for putting too much pressure on the council. i wish it had been true, then i would have had another reason to congratulate you.
in writing. we want to improve european consumers' access to online goods and services, eliminate differences in treatment between offline and online purchases, and eliminate discrimination linked to geo-blocking. there are still so many obstacles for smes and consumers, which explain the depressing figures for e-commerce in europe. while only 4% of european online transactions are cross-border (for 42% of national transactions and 54% from the us), 45% of european households do not have high-speed internet! the establishment of an effective digital market is urgently needed for the economy as well as for employment and social inclusion. we european socialists have also worked hard to recall the social and not just commercial aspects of the text, by adding numerous references to social law, labour law and the participatory aspect of digital technology. these projects should not only be a good opportunity for large companies but also an improvement for all citizens and smes.
in writing. ‒ following the unanimous opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i have approved the waiver of mr siekierski's parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ on 7 september 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate for authorisation to bring legal proceedings against mr czesław adam siekierski, in respect of speeding. the polish road traffic inspectorate argued that on 19 april 2015, at 11:19 a.m., in the locality of stopnica, mr siekierski was photographed by radar while driving a vehicle travelling at 79 km/h on a section where the speed limit is 50 km/h. the facts alleged against mr siekierski constitute an offence within the meaning of article 92a of the polish code of administrative offences, in conjunction with article 20 (1) of the polish law of 20 june 1997 on road traffic. on 5 october 2015, the president of parliament announced, in accordance with rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the prosecutor general of the republic of poland requesting the waiver of immunity. on 27 october 2015, in accordance with rule 9 (1), the president referred the request to the committee on legal affairs. we voted on this case yesterday.
in writing. - i voted yes to lifting my colleague's immunity so he can pay his traffic ticket.
in writing. ‒ polish traffic authorities accuse adam siekierski of speeding on 19 january 2015. i voted in favour of the decision to waive his parliamentary immunity, as this waiver cannot affect his work as a member of parliament and it must be clear that members of parliament are not above the law.
in writing. ‒ following the unanimous opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i have approved the waiver of mr siekierski's parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ on 7 september 2015, the prosecutor general of the republic of poland forwarded to the president of parliament a request from the polish road traffic inspectorate for authorisation to bring legal proceedings against mr czesław adam siekierski, in respect of speeding. the polish road traffic inspectorate argued that on 19 april 2015, at 11:19 a.m., in the locality of stopnica, mr siekierski was photographed by radar while driving a vehicle travelling at 79 km/h on a section where the speed limit is 50 km/h. the facts alleged against mr siekierski constitute an offence within the meaning of article 92a of the polish code of administrative offences, in conjunction with article 20 (1) of the polish law of 20 june 1997 on road traffic. on 5 october 2015, the president of parliament announced, in accordance with rule 9 (1), that he had received a letter from the prosecutor general of the republic of poland requesting the waiver of immunity. on 27 october 2015, in accordance with rule 9 (1), the president referred the request to the committee on legal affairs. we voted on this case yesterday.
in writing. - i voted yes to lifting my colleague's immunity so he can pay his traffic ticket.
in writing. ‒ polish traffic authorities accuse adam siekierski of speeding on 19 april 2015. i voted in favour of the decision to waive his parliamentary immunity, as this waiver cannot affect his work as an mep.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this point, which aims to incorporate into a regulation the provisions adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icsta) to restore bluefin tuna stocks.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of its position on the proposal for a regulation on a multiannual plan for the recovery of tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. the purpose of this regulation is to incorporate into union law the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, which aim to ensure the conservation of tuna stocks and thus the sustainability of fishing opportunities. the recommendations in this report take account of the positive evolution of tuna stocks in recent years, which is the result of management measures to ensure the sustainability of these stocks. the incorporation of such measures decided at international level into union law is a crucial step towards their uniform application at european level and thus ensuring the coherence of the common fisheries policy. i also support parliament's request to preserve the powers of our assembly to transpose into union law measures decided in the international bodies for the management of fisheries activities.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, the european parliament adopted the proposal for a regulation incorporating all the measures for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted between 2012 and 2014. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation. the vote will now put the european parliament's fisheries committee in a position to open negotiations with the eu council on this issue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the reconstitution plan shall take into account the specificities of the different types of apparatus. in implementing it, the union and the member states should pay particular attention to artisanal fishing activities and the most artisanal and sustainable gear such as traditional traps ('almadrabas', 'tunnare'), which contribute very positively to the recovery of tuna stocks, due to their high level of selectivity, low environmental impact on marine ecosystems and scientific importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this decision because the recovery plan aims to conserve and optimise the use of fish stocks in the atlantic and the mediterranean, so that we can achieve sustainable fishing in europe in the long term.
in writing. ‒ this resolution on the 2014 annual report on eu competition policy gives the commission clear guidance on how parliament envisages future competition policy. above all, i welcome the fact that one of the main focuses of the report is on fair tax competition in the eu. i also support a stronger role for parliament in the legislative process on competition law issues, which can create a broader democratic basis. for these reasons, i fully support the report.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which stresses in particular commissioner vestager's desire to make competition policy, in close cooperation with the european parliament, an important instrument for european integration and calls for competition policy to strengthen social cohesion in the union. in this connection, the commissioner has just adopted a series of encouraging sanctions for tax evasion by large companies. it cannot be a sustainable european construction without social and fiscal justice. the resolution also stresses the need to combat social dumping and promote high labour and environmental standards through competition policy. it is not possible to make a speech based solely on competitiveness and productivity without regard for working conditions and workers' rights.
in writing. ‒ the langen report should be, according to its title, a report on european competition policy. in practice, however, it is mainly a question of tax policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the taxe report, proposals which we do not share. that cannot be the purpose of a report on competition. that is why the n-va voted against this report. in addition, this report does not seem to respect the independence of the european commission in this area. the european parliament sees itself as the competition authority. however, it is not the politicians but an independent institution that must assess competition policy.
in writing. an effective and credible competition policy must be able to enable the european union to revitalise its economy. it is not just a question of directing this policy towards lower consumer prices. we must also pay particular attention to the strategic interests of our economy. innovation, investment, competitiveness and sustainability must be the cornerstones of our competition policy. to achieve this, the european union must urgently step up its fight against social dumping, develop the digital economy, complete the internal market and ensure a fairer and more transparent financial sector, in particular by fighting tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament would like to see states which grant illegal state aid through tax advantages to companies not recover this aid when the commission decides that it should be recovered. and that the money that companies have to pay back should go directly to the eu budget. this is one of the recommendations contained in a report on competition policy, adopted yesterday, tuesday 19 january, in plenary. the report also addresses the google case and calls on the commission to investigate why the us giant only offers the android mobile operating system in conjunction with other google services and why manufacturers would not be allowed to pre-install competing products. the report also asks the commission to examine google's market dominance in the hotel reservation sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text and support the request to the commission to step up its efforts in relation to the investigation of cases of abuse of a dominant position to the detriment of consumers in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this annual report on the european union's competition policy because, through a strong european competition policy, we are able to ensure that the european consumer always gets the best price and quality. in addition, a strong european competition policy also ensures that our smes can compete on a level playing field. so by maintaining fair competition, we keep companies sharp and we keep them innovating. this will ultimately only benefit the 500 million european consumers.
in writing. ‒ i have of course supported this report by my s&d colleague julie ward, who advocates the intensification of a structured intercultural and interfaith dialogue between all stakeholders in order to promote the union's fundamental values. it recalls the crucial role of education in any intercultural strategy and stresses that the union should also increase the weight of culture and education in its international exchanges and development cooperation policy.
in the past few months, europe has been gripped by a series of dramatic and violent events. an unprecedented number of refugees and asylum seekers are calling for protection in europe. terrorist attacks, such as those in paris, are even explicitly aimed at disrupting our european society. these events have brought the european union to a turning point. concepts and values such as identity, pluralism, justice and equality are under pressure and threaten to be redefined. that is why i support this report, which lays a foundation for our european values and principles and proposes a number of measures to promote active citizenship in europe. education plays a crucial role in this. learning about human rights, promoting a democratic, pluralistic and just society is essential to instill in young people the commitment, entrepreneurship and leadership to build a lasting dam against intolerance, racism, radicalisation and violent extremism, based on the universality of our values.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the european parliament supported the ward report on the role of intercultural dialogue and education. today western society and its values are under attack. the tragic events in europe in recent months bear this out. they come in many forms, sometimes deadly, but always traumatic. in january, the attack on a jewish teacher in marseille, simply because he was wearing a kippa, recalls the dark hours of our history. this act only confirms a resurgence of religious and cultural intolerance in the union. the numbers speak for themselves. according to a 2014 report by the coordination forum for combating anti-semitism, as many as 109 anti-semitic incidents were recorded in belgium, and 1,168 in britain. more broadly, in 2015, 50% of europeans thought that religious discrimination was a common phenomenon. in this regard, the paris declaration of 17 march 2015 by the european ministers of education already revealed a collective will to combat these scourges by promoting the union's values through education. educating today's youth in tolerance is a major challenge, but the european union has no choice but to meet it.
in writing. ‒ intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education play an important role in combating religious radicalism. this is the message adopted yesterday by the european parliament in response to the increase in attacks in recent months, in a report that is part of the continuation of the paris declaration, adopted in march 2015 by the ministers of education. the text adopted underlines the need to combine efforts to prevent and combat marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, and to preserve a framework of equal opportunities for all. this requires "increased public investment in formal, non-formal and informal education that is open, accessible and of good quality". the text suggests integrating dialogue and cultural diversity into all areas of eu action which affect the union's fundamental values. it refers in particular to youth, education, mobility, employment, social and foreign affairs, women's rights and gender equality, and trade and regional development. the text also suggests that these issues be integrated into the union's external and development policy.
in writing. the n-va meps voted against this report. it is a good thing that differences between religions are taught. education contributes to a better understanding of different cultures and to better social cohesion. the nva delegation believes, however, that promoting diversity, achieving inclusion and eliminating socio-economic disparities requires a tailored migration, integration and activation policy tailored to each individual concerned. unfortunately, this report does not do that.
in writing. - i voted for julie ward's proposal. europe is rich in cultural, social, linguistic and religious diversity; in this context, the shared values that are the foundation of our societies, such as freedom, social justice, equality and non-discrimination, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, tolerance and solidarity, are essential for the future of europe.
in writing. ‒ i naturally voted in favour of this report on intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education. more than ever before, in the light of the migration crisis and the recent attacks in paris, intercultural dialogue can play an important role in the fight against extremism in all its forms.
in writing. ‒ following the 2008 crisis, many reforms have taken place in the financial services sector. the report takes stock and provides new ideas for the future. the report highlights the potential inconsistencies and lack of harmonisation in the current legislation. it states that initiatives will be taken to remedy this. it called for the full and strict implementation of existing legislation in the member states. financial stability and consumer protection remain the priorities. i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to learn from the past in order to rebuild viable financial services.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation in the european parliament supports this evaluation report on eu legislation in the field of financial services. we are less enthusiastic, however, about the fact that the report mentions the 'great steps' taken by the entry into force of the solvency ii directive. the n-va meps abstained on the part of the text referring to solvency ii. investments by insurers with a guarantee from the federal government are given a more favourable risk weight than investments backed by a flemish regional guarantee. this distinction, which imposes additional capital costs on flemish insurers, is indefensible. the european union is making an unfair abstraction from the belgian institutional system. a flemish guarantee should be weighed in the same way as a guarantee from the federal government. moreover, for direct exposures this distinction is not made. this provision should therefore be updated. as soon as possible. we therefore continue to raise this issue in the european parliament and in the european commission.
in writing. the financial crisis of 2007-2008 gave rise to an ambitious programme of reform of the union's financial sector. the time has now come to take stock of the new framework and assess its adequacy to the challenges of the present. we must ensure financial stability which ensures growth in investment, mainly in the long term. financial markets need to respond better to the financing needs of the real economy. however, in this report we have stressed the increasing complexity of the legislation. it is therefore essential that we have a global vision in order to maintain consistency in the european regulations in force.
in writing. ‒ in 2008, the financial crisis known as the subprime mortgage crisis in the us was sweeping across europe, severely and permanently weakening the european economy. we must remember the high cost and the considerable effort required of taxpayers to help the banking sector: 26% of european gdp was absorbed in this task. since then, the european union has certainly spared no effort to stabilise the financial system, and in particular the banking system, and many pieces of legislation have been adopted in the last three years: a single resolution mechanism in the event of bank failures, a framework for managing bank failures and a deposit guarantee system. so it's time for the mid-course countdown. the european parliament called on the commission on tuesday to carry out an impact study of the 40 pieces of eu legislation on the financial market that have been implemented since the crisis. the aim is to be able to judge the consistency and proportionality of the rules while identifying any undesirable side effects that would weaken smes and investors.
in writing. ‒ the financial and debt crisis of 2007/2008 required comprehensive action by european legislators. since then, numerous legislative initiatives in the area of financial services have been launched with a view to restoring financial stability, strengthening consumer protection and implementing the lessons learned from the crisis. the aim of this own-initiative report, which was voted on yesterday, is to take an initial look at this legislative work, to address the shortcomings in the financial services legislation and to express concern that the effects of the various legislative measures have not been sufficiently analysed so far. however, a thorough assessment of the effects of the financial services framework is necessary and should be repeated regularly. moreover, the application of financial services legislation should be made more comprehensible and better adapted to the needs of smes. financial stability and consumer protection must remain the priorities of policymakers, with greater emphasis on the implementation of a coherent risk-based strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text on the balance sheet and the challenges of eu regulation of financial services, even though i would have liked to go further. i see that the financial and debt crisis we are going through has had unprecedented consequences, particularly on the real economy and on taxpayers' money. i therefore welcome the financial regulation approved by the european institutions over the last five years, which has strengthened europe's financial architecture in preparation for future crises. we have got the commission to include an effective level of consumer and investor protection, which is one of the founding principles of this union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives us a broader view of the state of play of legislative measures relating to financial markets. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on capital markets are fully applied.
in writing. ‒ given the importance of entrepreneurship in creating jobs and the fact that women accounted for only 31% of entrepreneurs in the european union in 2012, i have endorsed this report which calls on member states to adopt concrete strategies to remove obstacles to female entrepreneurship. this is an integral part of gender equality, which must be one of our key political priorities. this includes a better work-life balance for all, support for women's entrepreneurship, access to finance and the creation and support for the development of networks.
in writing. since the launch of the lisbon treaty, promoting entrepreneurship has been a political priority for europe. to make our economy more efficient and to create more new jobs, we need more entrepreneurs. yet we still find that entrepreneurship in europe lags behind the other major economies in the world. while in the us 21% of the population opts for entrepreneurship, in europe only 12% of the active population opts for self-employment. of all the selfemployed and entrepreneurs in europe, it is found that only 31% are women. women are more likely to choose to work as employees, even if this is to maintain a balance between their private and professional lives. the report makes a strong case for removing the obstacles that potential female entrepreneurs still face. all too often, women entrepreneurs rely on financial support from family and acquaintances. access to credit lines for women entrepreneurs should therefore be facilitated. i also fully support the measures proposed to eliminate stereotypes about female entrepreneurship and to promote female entrepreneurship through training and study options.
in writing. ‒ in europe, women account for only 31% of entrepreneurs and are most often in sectors considered less profitable: education, healthcare and social work. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the means envisaged to achieve this are many: the promotion of an entrepreneurial culture within our societies or the establishment of support structures to facilitate the reconciliation of work and family life for women. women are twice as likely as men to work part-time. all these proposals are moving in the right direction. however, i do not think that quotas are the best solution, and the debate on paternity leave is certainly not a european priority, given the difficulty of reaching agreement between member states on this issue. women's entrepreneurship in europe is nevertheless an important societal issue that foreshadows the advent of a more liberal, less codified and rigid western society, which gives priority to individual initiative.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, in plenary, the european parliament looked at the reasons why women are generally less likely to set out as self-employed than men. a report was voted calling on the european commission and the member states to take up the matter and encourage women to become entrepreneurs. in europe, women are twice as likely as men to choose self-employment, accounting for only 31% of self-employed persons in the 28 eu member states in 2012. the text of the report reviews the obstacles which prevent women from becoming entrepreneurs. for example, women have a harder time accessing traditional equity financing, and they tend to start their businesses with less capital and smaller loans. the text adopted calls on the member states and the european commission to promote an entrepreneurial culture from the very beginning of girls' education and to consider instruments - including financial instruments - to help women to start their own businesses.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation in the european parliament abstained from voting on this report. the n-va is a strong supporter of equal opportunities for men and women and is working towards a strong, coordinated policy on equal opportunities. in abstaining, the n-va delegation wishes to point out in particular that (1) we do not agree with the recommendation to the commission to introduce gender quotas for any aid to underrepresented and disadvantaged groups; (2) the report is excessively intrusive on matters of the private sphere; (3) and the language used in certain paragraphs is very woman-friendly.
in writing. - i'm on the same page as mrs. matera. we call on the eu institutions, the member states and regional and local authorities to take more active action, including concrete measures, to combat the stereotypes about the respective characteristics and abilities of women and men that persist in sectors where men are in the majority, such as science and technology, or innovation and invention. in these sectors, women are likely to be perceived as less credible or less professional than men by decision-makers, investors, the financial sector and the market, which means that women entrepreneurs are sometimes viewed with skepticism by potential customers, suppliers, partners, banks and investors, and that they must demonstrate much greater tenacity to prove their knowledge, skills and abilities, and to be able to access the funding they need.
in writing. ‒ as a female politician and a champion of women's rights, this issue is close to my heart. in europe, women represent only 31% of all entrepreneurs, and they are even more prevalent in the softer sectors such as health, education and social work. this has been made clearer in recent days by the under-representation of women in davos. i approved this report on the external factors that hinder female entrepreneurship because i want to encourage the european commission to promote female entrepreneurship in all sectors.
in writing. ‒ currently, more than 7 million young people aged 15-24 are not in employment, education or training. for many of them, victims of the banking and business crisis, the lack of skills is a structural barrier to accessing sustainable employment that will enable them to pursue a life project. i am deeply involved in the fight for jobs for farciennes and i see every day the human consequences that this can have. i therefore naturally supported this report which stresses that the development of individual skills and the dissemination of knowledge and skills are one of the aspects of integrated social and employment policies. it is clear that schools, training bodies and, of course, companies must make this struggle for employment a priority. but the overall socioeconomic context is also essential. the commission has launched the youth guarantee, which should be highlighted. but it cannot take back what it has given from one hand and must commit itself to a genuine investment-based recovery policy which will reduce unemployment and poverty and finally give prospects for the future to millions of young europeans.
tackling youth unemployment remains one of the greatest challenges in europe. despite the fact that more than 7 million young people were unemployed in europe at the end of 2014, we also find that 2 million vacancies are not being filled. it is therefore of the utmost importance that europe and the member states take initiatives to get more young people into work. an integrated employment policy means anticipating labour market developments more quickly and matching individual skills development with specific labour market demands. it is also advisable to intensify cooperation between educational institutions and economic sectors in the context of cross-sectoral cooperation. i also support the recommendation in this report to intensify the eures european job network and labour mobility so that, especially in border regions, young people are encouraged to take up cross-border job offers. finally, it is also recommended that extra efforts be made to promote entrepreneurship among young people. in this context, it is appropriate that all member states engage in the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament backed a key report this afternoon to combat youth unemployment. in november 2015, according to eurostat, 20% of young europeans aged 15-24 were unemployed (27.8% in brussels). nearly 5 million young people are unemployed, while 2 million jobs remain open. with a budget of 6 billion, the union must take action to combat this problem, which affects economic development and social cohesion throughout its territory. i have of course supported this essential report which emphasizes greater flexibility in education systems in the face of a constantly changing labour market, in order to ensure a better match between the knowledge acquired and the skills needed for the labour market. here again, and it is not for lack of repetition, education must work in tandem with business to combat this scourge effectively. a small step has been taken, but there is still a long way to go.
in writing. ‒ vocational and flexible education, non-formal and innovative learning, workplace training, traineeships and mobility are all tools that member states should strengthen to better develop the individual skills of young europeans. this approach is contained in the resolution on 'policies to promote skills development to combat youth unemployment', which was adopted yesterday in plenary in strasbourg. the main message of the text, which has received wide support, is that today more bridges must be built between the world of education, which must be modernised (new teaching methods), and that of business, which must be supported by public authorities (regional, national and european). the aim is to facilitate the integration into the labour market of the five million unemployed young people aged 15 to 24 in the union and the seven million young europeans who are not in employment, education or training.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights the importance of focusing on the skills of young people in the fight against youth unemployment. of course, this is of great importance, but it is not a panacea. we will not solve youth unemployment by just focusing on skills. green amendments have ensured that this report now also focuses on the problem of structural unemployment. we must increase the supply of quality jobs and create structural and sustainable jobs for all. education not only prepares young people for the labour market, but is also very important for the personal development of young people. this may lead to finding a suitable job. every youngster is different. this should be taken into account when learning skills. social actors must be supported in providing training and job creation. we must be bold enough to invest in sectors with a future, especially in clean technology and green jobs. and we need to give young start-ups and smes a boost so that they can develop their own initiatives. equal opportunities are also important, especially for people with disabilities. because everyone should be able to develop his or her skills to the full, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this text provides an opportunity to recall the essential role of enterprises, in particular smes, social and solidarity economy actors and microenterprises, in vocational skills training and job creation for young people. we must emphasise the need to provide young people with an education which introduces them to the spirit of enterprise in the broadest possible way. we must advocate that training programmes include the development, in a safe environment, of the professional skills necessary for the creation and management of enterprises, and that transversal entrepreneurial skills, abilities and knowledge are promoted which are effectively acquired through practical and real-life experience.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on skills-based policies to combat youth unemployment in the european union. in europe, on the one hand, we have 4.5 million young people without a job and, on the other, 2 million unfilled vacancies. measures are therefore needed to bridge this gap. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal.
in writing. ‒ this report welcomes the commission communication 'a strategy for a digital single market in europe' as it believes that the creation of such a market, based on a set of rules, could have a positive influence on growth and employment and make society more inclusive. for example, e-commerce generates 500 billion euros a year in the european union! however, it must be kept in mind that it is important to think at every stage about the inclusion of the most vulnerable citizens. they cannot remain on the margins of a digital society that has too often developed without them. the social divide would only grow. the commission will also be looking at consumer protection, the protection of personal data and the fight against illegal content on the net.
in writing. europe must join the digital train as soon as possible, as it affects all aspects of the lives of citizens, young people, public figures and businessmen, and even changes democracy itself. the digital economy is a mine of job creation, innovation and growth. we're making a technological leap by combining machines, networks, telecommunications and computing. however, it cannot be achieved without respect for data protection and privacy. while every european citizen has the right to the internet and broadband wherever they are, they also have the right to respect for their privacy. i am therefore in favour of a regulated digital single market which puts the individual at the centre of its concerns.
in writing. ‒ end of geo-blocking, which prevents watching news or football matches streamed from abroad on the websites of national channels, and end of being prevented from watching the podcast of foreign tv shows. this is in any case the intention of the european parliament, which on tuesday called for the rapid implementation of a digital single market based on 16 proposals made by the commission in may 2015. among the latter, i would mention first of all the desire to achieve rapidly widespread coverage of the 4g network, which currently covers only 15% of europeans in rural areas, in accordance with the principle of universal access. other measures are also urgent: the removal of geo-blocking and its ip-based restrictions, the reduction of delivery charges in transnational e-commerce to boost online sales. it will of course take a few years for all this to become a reality, but this promising digital revolution will allow europe, if it makes the right choices and quickly, to generate €415 billion of additional wealth every year and to enter the 21st century cognitive society on its feet.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative resolution adopted yesterday is parliament's response to the roadmap presented by the commission in may 2015. the text is based on two key objectives: first, to improve access to the digital single market for consumers and businesses across europe; and second, to create an enabling environment and fair conditions of competition for innovative services and advanced digital networks. it also pursues more transversal objectives, such as asking the commission to launch a study on the side effects of digitalisation (i.e. on the development of children's cognitive abilities). but it ignores the most controversial issues, such as the impossibility of reconciling the principle of the territoriality of copyright and the end of geographical blocking. finally, i supported an amendment which states that the commission and all member states must strictly uphold the principle of net neutrality and which calls on the commission to preserve the openness of the internet as a global platform for communication, production, participation, creation, cultural diversity and innovation, in the interests of citizens, consumers and the success of european businesses as a whole.
in writing. ‒ we want to improve european consumers' access to online goods and services, eliminate differences in treatment between offline and online purchases, and eliminate discrimination linked to geo-blocking. so many obstacles remain for smes and consumers, explaining the grim figures for online commerce in europe. while only 4% of european online transactions are cross-border (compared to 42% of national transactions and 54% from the us), 45% of european households do not have high-speed internet! an effective digital market is urgently needed for the economy, employment and social inclusion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this act because it can promote the competitiveness of the european union as a whole and will give a new impetus to our internal market. we need an open market: this is the only way to respond successfully to the digitisation of the economy.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first of all i have to tell you that i hesitated a little bit to participate in this debate because we are repeating ourselves time and again. it is the fourth or the fifth time that we have exactly the same debate, and i agree with mr guerrero, who used a very active comparison, namely the myth of sisyphus. every time we say ‘yeah, we need european border and coast guard’, where is it? it is now months since the commission put that proposal on the council’s table, and still we are waiting for that. meanwhile, everybody knows what the first thing to do is: register, monitor and secure our external borders. when i hear, mr van orden, that you are praising mr cameron’s policy on refugees, i feel that you should go – maybe with me or a number of other volunteers – to the camps in calais and in dunkirk where they are living in the mud. there are pregnant women and children who are not allowed to come into britain, in spite of the fact that their families are living in britain. they are not allowed to come in. that is the so-called ‘open policy’ of a conservative government. i can tell you, it is a shame when you go there and when you see in what circumstances these people have to live. it is easy to talk about the southern borders of europe, but you can see what is happening on the western borders of europe. my fear is that we no longer have schengen being applied in denmark, in sweden, in austria, in slovenia, or in hungary, so what will happen if germany is doing that tomorrow? that could be the end of schengen. that could be the end of the european union (applause)yeah, ok that is what you want. you want to return to your british empire that no longer exists, but the reality is a little bit different. the reality is that, today, this all is falling apart because of a lack of decisiveness by member states. it is not the european union that has a lack of decisiveness; it is the council, which meets time and again. i hope every time that they are going to take decisions on the european border and coast guard, on the new migration and economic migration policy, on a new asylum system, on a relocation system, and on a mandatory relocation system for the refugees. what is happening? 290 people have been relocated officially of the 160 000 proposed by the european commission, and everybody knows that even that is theoretical, because in reality there are more than one million people already inside the european union and in need of a new system. my plea to you, mr tusk, is this: you are going to have an exceptional summit on 18 february, i think, on brexit. well, i propose a change. hold an exceptional summit on the refugee crisis. brexit can wait until march or april. the most urgent thing to tackle now is to finally take decisions with the member states on each of the four points that are necessary: a relocation system, a migration system, a new asylum system and, at the same time, the first thing to do is set up a european border and coastguard. that seems to be far more important than starting the whole discussion about the brexit, because you will maybe find a way out of the brexit so that britain remains in the european union, but we could find ourselves without a european union if we continue like this. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i accept the invitation. i think the first who is laughing then is mr farage – he likes that, to have a debate about it. but you have to go a little bit further into your reasoning. what would the state of the british economy be without the internal market on the european continent? what would be the weight of the city of london if they could no longer trade in euros, when 70 or 80% of all the trading in the city of london is done in euros? i think that britain has to remain in europe, and it is completely crazy to think that you can go back in history and do it on your own. that is not working in the globalised world of tomorrow. (applause)
mr president, i would just like to say that on sexual harassment his party, ukip, has a whole record. so he should maybe use different language in this. (heckling from ukip group)
mr zarianopoulos, you have put a question to me and i answer by saying that if you go to google and you google ‘ukip and harassment’ you will have the answer to the question that you have put to me.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for her presence and for the tone that she has used. i am going to try to follow your path and your example on the tone, prime minister – not always easy for me. you and your party won the elections, and you and your party got a strong mandate to lead your country. we respect this, and we have to respect this. in fact, as a liberal democrat, i may not like all of your policies, but they are not our policies. that is your responsibility. this is how it works in a real democracy: on the basis of a broad majority. it is your right to reshape the media landscape, to reform the civil service. i can tell you that when i was prime minister, i did similar things myself. but that is not the point here. what makes us concerned and alarms most members here in the house, and what a democrat never does, is the use or abuse of a huge majority to dismantle the checks and balances in the country. that does not happen. why? because this is at the core of european democracy. it is a system of checks and balances that makes it possible to enact laws when these laws are in contradiction with the polish constitution. i think that the legislation on the constitutional tribunal, which your majority rushed through the parliament – i think it was on christmas day – does exactly this. it eliminates, it paralyses, in fact, the constitutional court, and i have to tell you that this was not announced in the manifesto of your party before the elections. it is not – and i am going to be very precise – the composition or the nominations (mr kamall) that will be the problem; it is not the quorum, which you have increased, that will be the problem; it is not the two-thirds majority that you impose that is the problem; it is not even the enforced chronological order of cases that is now introduced as a new rule. some of the member states – you said it yourself – also have some of these rules, but they do not have them all together. that is precisely the point. it is the combination of all four elements that definitely paralysed the courts and made it impossible for them to do their work. i will tell you very clearly: it is fair enough, mr kamall, that the polish government has rectified the mistake made by the previous majority. but you do not rectify it by then paralysing this constitutional court. from your tone, it seems that you feel yourself that there is a problem. i feel it in your voice, and that is why you followed the advice of mr timmermans to ask for the opinion of the venice commission, which is a good thing. but let me say one thing, it would be a very bad thing if we brought poland eastwards to another system. (jeers from the chamber.) it is true, mr kamall, i have once used the word ‘putin’, and i know that mr kaczyński does not like putin or russia, and neither do i. he is not on the blacklist, but i am. so with these policies mr kaczyński is helping mr putin, because the inconvenient truth here is that mr putin does not like european unity. he has an obsession with destroying european unity, and what is happening in poland could help him in his course. never forget, mr prime minister, history has proven that polish unity and strength go hand-in-hand with european unity and strength, and vice-versa. but i have, in fact, no doubt and i have faith. i think there is no problem, because there are the polish people and the polish citizens. knowing the polish people, who gave rise to solidarność, they fought against repression; they fought for their freedom, for democracy, for the freedom of religion and for the rule of law. all this they did. well, i know that the polish people will never accept giving up their democracy. so my plea to you, prime minister, is this: i would like to encourage you not so much to listen to me or to us, but to listen to the majority of your own citizens who want their country to remain in the world community of democracies in the future.
on behalf of the alde group.– thank you mr president. i have to tell you, prime minister, that i admire you in a certain sense, because after a few weeks you are already using all the tricks of a prime minister in office, for example by saying: ‘yes, i am here to respond to your questions’, and nobody had real remarks on what is happening. i think the commission and i myself have described what the problem is, and what the problem is with this change in the constitutional court. let me explain it again, because maybe the interpretation was not good into polish. the system is simple: you have nominated three, out of five in total, new judges to the constitutional court, and these three with new rules you have made – you have given a right of veto to three pis members. that is what you are doing. three members of your party can block any decision in the constitutional court based on the new rules you have made. that is what is happening, and you do not respond to this? you find it very normal that this is happening, and the only argument you have is to say, and this is also what mr legutko is saying, ‘yes, but the platforma made mistakes’. that is true, the platforma did make mistakes, but you were elected, you received the victory to do better than platforma, not to make the same mistakes as platforma. that is democracy and you do exactly the same things mr legutko is referring to: ‘they did things that we did not like, a one-party state, and now it is our turn to make a one-party state for the coming years’. so, i have only one question for you, and i think you can respond to this at least, as prime minister. if the venice commission gives a negative opinion, will you follow that opinion of the venice commission?
mr president, there must be a problem of translation, because the speech was delivered in polish and i naturally followed in english; my polish is very bad. did you say you would now follow the venice commission opinion or not? yes or no; that i understand in polish. yes or no?
in writing. the interventions of the new polish government are particularly worrying. the independence of the constitutional court and of the public broadcaster are at stake. these are the fundamental values of the european union, enshrined in article 2 of the european treaty. it is therefore essential that the european commission initiates a thorough investigation and consultation with the polish government in order to find a solution. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, is best placed to act through the rule of law mechanism, which was set up for this purpose in 2014.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the various crises around us sometimes give rise to doubts, but in colombia the recent peace process with the farc gives rise to hope for an end to this conflict. a fragrance of peace is in the air. - thank you. the provisional agreements should be completed by 23 march and should lead to the surrender of the arms. in the ecr resolution we call on the parties to clarify the ambiguities in the meantime on transitional justice and reparation for victims. the colombian peace process must not stop here. the chapters on eln violence and the paramilitary militias must also be closed. because a large part of the paramilitaries did not participate in the demobilization and integration programme. some feared militias continue to fight both farc and government forces today. these cancers in colombian society also need to be addressed.
member of the commission.– madam president, first i would like to thank the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and congratulate the rapporteurs ms ford, ms stihler and mr lópez-istúriz white for their hard work on the three files, which made it possible to find a satisfactory compromise which will, hopefully, help us to swiftly adopt the three regulations at first reading. a thorough and deeper single market is one of the priorities of the commission. this package demonstrates that we are also not falling short on delivery. it is an important step in assuring a simpler legal framework. the three regulations on personal protective equipment, gas appliances and cableway installations cover a significant part of the products circulating in our internal market. they concern a vast range of products which millions of eu citizens use on a daily basis. it is crucial that single market legislation ensures that these products are safe and, of course, as regards personal protective equipment in particular, that this actually provides adequate protection. we also need to ensure that the companies producing those products can count on the legal framework that meets their needs and allows them to be competitive and prosper: a legal framework that is clear and does not impose an excessive burden. this package is really a major step forward in our endeavour to simplify the regulatory environment as the so-called ‘new approach’ directives are changed into regulations, which will be directly applicable in every eu member state. this will significantly facilitate the life of enterprises. instead of analysing and researching 28 national transposition laws, companies can directly refer to one single text available in all official languages of the european union. with the adoption of the package we are also a step closer to completing the implementation of the new legislative framework, which will make the whole of our single market legislation much more consistent and easier to apply. new obligations have been introduced for importers and distributors, who now have a very clear set of tasks and checks that they must carry out before importing products from third countries into the eu. new rules on traceability will make it possible to follow a product throughout the entire distribution chain. the package will also give better tools to market surveillance authorities, allowing them to fight more efficiently against unsafe and non-compliant products on the eu market. this will be to the benefit of all companies, making them comply with the applicable rules. it will also reduce unfair competition. the benefits of this package are for all: for consumers, enterprises and authorities. and they are clearly there. let me make one short remark on an institutional issue. it must be clear – and the recently-concluded negotiations on the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making have confirmed this – that comitology committees are not the same as commission expert groups. with the new interinstitutional agreement coming into place shortly, the commission will play closer attention to the role of the committees. the adoption of these proposals will doubtless have a positive effect on entrepreneurship and competitiveness in europe. thus, considering the agreement that has been achieved by the co-legislators and the benefits and significant added value for enterprises, citizens and national administrations, as i illustrated previously, the commission welcomes the agreed compromise package. commission's statements on:1. report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cableway installations [com(2014)0187 - c7-0111/2014 - 2014/0107(cod)] - committee on the internal market and consumer protection. rapporteur: antonio lópez-istúriz white (a8-0063/2015) “with regard to recital 65 and the possibility of the european parliament to be invited to meetings of expert groups, the commission will implement this recital in accordance with its practice in the implementation of point 15 of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission. meetings of the comitology committee are explicitly excluded under this arrangement. concerning the reference to infringements in the same recital, the commission considers this misleading as infringements proceeding are discussed with member states in the context of the procedures set out under article 258 tfeu.” "the commission regrets the adoption of article 44(5) and recital 64 that creates confusion and legal uncertainty, and may compromise institutional balance. the role of the comitology committees which ensure control by member states on the commission's exercise of implementing powers is defined only by regulation no (eu) 182/2011, adopted on the basis of article 291, third paragraph, tfeu. therefore, no other secondary legislative act can alter or would need to specify further this role. in particular, the comitology committees should not perform the functions which are those of the commission's groups of experts. in addition, the rules of procedures of committees are adopted by the committees on the basis of regulation no (eu) 182/2011. as such they are to be applied when the committee exercises its role defined by regulation no (eu) 182/2011. any reference to rules of procedures outside this context is superfluous and inappropriate. it also risks complicating the functioning of the committee." 2. report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on appliances burning gaseous fuels [com(2014)0258 - c8-0006/2014 - 2014/0136(cod)] - committee on the internal market and consumer protection. rapporteur: catherine stihler (a8-0147/2015) “with regard to recital 74 and the possibility of the european parliament to be invited to meetings of expert groups, the commission will implement this recital in accordance with its practice in the implementation of point 15 of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission. meetings of the comitology committee are explicitly excluded under this arrangement. concerning the reference to infringements in the same recital, the commission considers this misleading as infringements proceeding are discussed with member states in the context of the procedures set out under article 258 tfeu.” "the commission regrets the adoption of article 42(5) and recital 73 that creates confusion and legal uncertainty, and may compromise institutional balance. the role of the comitology committees which ensure control by member states on the commission's exercise of implementing powers is defined only by regulation no (eu) 182/2011, adopted on the basis of article 291, third paragraph, tfeu. therefore, no other secondary legislative act can alter or would need to specify further this role. in particular, the comitology committees should not perform the functions which are those of the commission's groups of experts. in addition, the rules of procedures of committees are adopted by the committees on the basis of regulation no (eu) 182/2011. as such they are to be applied when the committee exercises its role defined by regulation no (eu) 182/2011. any reference to rules of procedures outside this context is superfluous and inappropriate. it also risks complicating the functioning of the committee." 3. report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on personal protective equipment [com(2014)0186 - c7-0110/2014 - 2014/0108(cod)] - committee on the internal market and consumer protection. rapporteur: vicky ford (a8-0148/2015) “with regard to recital 52 and the possibility of the european parliament to be invited to meetings of expert groups, the commission will implement this recital in accordance with its practice in the implementation of point 15 of the framework agreement on relations between the european parliament and the european commission. meetings of the comitology committee are explicitly excluded under this arrangement. concerning the reference to infringements in the same recital, the commission considers this misleading as infringements proceeding are discussed with member states in the context of the procedures set out under article 258 tfeu.” "the commission regrets the adoption of recital 51 and article 44 (5) that creates confusion and legal uncertainty, and may compromise institutional balance. the role of the comitology committees which ensure control by member states on the commission's exercise of implementing powers is defined only by regulation no (eu) 182/2011, adopted on the basis of article 291, third paragraph, tfeu. therefore, no other secondary legislative act can alter or would need to specify further this role. in particular, the comitology committees should not perform the functions which are those of the commission's groups of experts. in addition, the rules of procedures of committees are adopted by the committees on the basis of regulation no (eu) 182/2011. as such they are to be applied when the committee exercises its role defined by regulation no (eu) 182/2011. any reference to rules of procedures outside this context is superfluous and inappropriate. it also risks complicating the functioning of the committee."
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am speaking to you as the epp negotiator on this proposal for a regulation on personal protective equipment. the european single market is characterised by high standards of consumer protection worldwide. i would even say and argue that nowhere is a consumer protected as well as in or by the eu. in particular, this regulation sets very high standards for helmets, ear protectors, bicycle helmets, sunglasses and safety vests. it's not about the self-hooked pot lids, it's not about the dishwasher gloves. this regulation therefore concerns each and every one of us. when i buy my little daughter a bicycle helmet, when my father, as a home-maker, puts on a respirator or when countless workers put on a helmet on a construction site, then everyone must be able to count on optimal protection being guaranteed - and this throughout europe. we therefore need high binding standards to protect consumers from products of poor quality. the european parliament has also been asked to give its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. so what good are the best rules if nobody is able to implement them? i am particularly pleased that we have agreed on a simplified recertification procedure. this means that if a manufacturer does not change anything about the product and the product still complies with all the legal requirements, then he should not have to pay for this authorisation again. so here we can show that we can do both. on the one hand, to protect consumers throughout europe effectively against fraud and poor quality, and on the other hand, to do away with excessive bureaucratic requirements. i therefore strongly and explicitly call for support for this report.
for the greens/efa group mr president, it is obvious that there are many people who do not want to discuss the situation in denmark. i think it is a question of credibility for the european union and, for this body, of fair treatment of the states. yesterday we devoted considerable time, and rightly so, to the situation in poland. we have spent considerable time in the past, and rightly so, on the situation in hungary. we have a situation developing in denmark which i think requires us to debate. we have given the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs the opportunity to debate this before a possible debate in plenary. i note that the officials in this committee have played the clock and want to postpone this, knowing full well that the measure will have been adopted by then in the danish parliament. i therefore insist and simply ask you, as president - you have told me that you have consulted the leaders of the political groups - to put the proposal to the vote, because i know that not everyone within the political groups wants to postpone this debate. i therefore think that the best way to ensure this is to have a vote now on the updating of the agenda for this part-session on the situation in denmark and to put this proposal to the vote by roll-call and we shall see. we shall all decide: if we lose, we lose, if we win, we shall put this on the agenda.
for the greens/efa group mr president, since this was the proposal made by the conference of presidents, i would like us to vote first, and therefore i would like you, as president, to vote first on the proposal to hold the debate here in plenary. in fact, this is also the normal chronological order. secondly, if this proposal is rejected, then you could put mrs in 't veld's proposal to the vote for the libe committee to deal with next monday.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the public. that is the internal debate in britain. i think there's more debate here than in the british parliament, mark. but anyway, here's the deal. you see, britain could not do without european democracy. where else would they be able to debate if we did not have the european parliament? the dutch presidency is coming and expectations are always high. it is not for nothing that there is a treaty of amsterdam and a treaty of maastricht. i am not suggesting that a new treaty should be concluded immediately under the dutch presidency. that doesn't seem very realistic to me. but we certainly have high hopes that the dutch presidency will be able to do something about the deep crisis in which europe is plunged. i see - and you have also mentioned this - three priorities. the top priority, of course, is the refugee crisis. what you have said is almost exactly what president tusk said yesterday: "we have two months, or schengen is dead". i wonder if schengen is dead already. if there are border controls in slovenia, hungary, austria, denmark and sweden, and if germany is added to that, then there is really nothing left of schengen. i know you're planning a special summit on february 18th on the brexit story. perhaps we should have an extra summit on the refugee crisis rather than on brexit. because it's an emergency. as jean-claude juncker has said: we are waiting with the european parliament for the proposal from the european border and coast guard. we are done. we have proposed to follow a fast track procedure. manfred weber repeated it this morning. the problem is when the council will say yes, and so i have one request to make of you. the brexit is very interesting, we can talk about it again, but make sure that in the coming weeks the border and coast guard is accepted by all the members of the european council. because that's where it starts. greece is receiving 3 000 refugees a day, which shows that the agreement with turkey is still not working optimally. so that seems to me to be the priority. mr president, the second priority is the internal market. i would like to tell you, mr kamall, that i agree completely with you but your voting pattern is a little bit different. yesterday we voted here on the harmonization of spectrum in the langen report, but we voted against the ecr, against harmonization of spectrum. yesterday we voted about one regulator in the digital market, we voted against the ecr on that issue. they want the digital market, a harmonised digital market, but they do not want it to be europe that creates the digital market. it has to become the digital market spontaneously. well, a digital market does not come spontaneously; a digital market comes if you have the right legislation on the european level in place and we encourage you, prime minister, to come forward in the tradition of jan willem beyen, the first dutch person who defended the idea in the 1950s to have a customs union, an internal market. we all know only 35% of the internal market exists; 65% is still closed: digital, telecom, capital markets, and so on. all this is closed; services are closed. my proposal is that the dutch presidency should agree on a timetable, so that in 2019 we have a full opening of the internal market. that should be a big achievement, because the actual growth we have i agree with mr juncker on this 1.52% is mainly expansive monetary policy by the ecb: low interest rates, low oil prices and a weak euro. we need, structurally, this full-fledged internal market, and i hope then that the voting pattern of mr kamall and his group is going to be a little bit different than yesterday. not only words, but also action, mr. kamall. finally, the brexit: i think you did a fantastic thing in your introduction, mr rutte. you have effectively given the greatest british statesman as an example: his speech in the hague, but moreover his 1946 intervention in zurich at a university where he said that not only for economic but for geopolitical reasons, britain has to remain in a united europe. the soviet union may have disappeared, but in the meantime we have putin one of the friends of mr farage and while the threat in the middle east may be different, in the meantime we have terrorism. so, let us make a deal with mr cameron, and it has to be a deal with balance we have interests too and let us not forget that only a united europe is in the geopolitical interest not only of britain, but of all european states. (applause) the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162 (8).
blue-card answer.– i do nothing else than to try to reduce costs and reduce bureaucracy here in this house, with the new interinstitutional agreement i have negotiated, also in the name of your group, ms ford, with the two other institutions, and with mr timmermans. but, that said, i think that often it is better to have one simple european directive instead of 28 different national regulations. take for example, ms ford, the case of spotify. spotify went to the us instead of rolling out as a swedish company. it needed to go to the united states instead of europe because it had to comply with 28 national regulations, 28 different regulations. so one european rule is far better and less costly than 28 different national ones.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr rutte, for his report. i often hear you say that what the eu really needs is not vision but results. i'll ask you one question: "would you have become prime minister of the netherlands if you had no vision for your future?" i don't think he is. if europe is in deep trouble today, it is precisely because of a lack of vision. we are creating a monetary union without a fiscal and social union. that can't work. we are creating a union of free movement without a common policy on asylum, migration and borders. this cannot work and it shows that there is a lack of vision rather than a lack of results. there are very important dutch citizens in the european union: frans timmermans is there, the highest official is a dutchman, you are a dutchman, the head of the eurogroup is a dutchman. and what kind of vision am i hearing? jeroen dijsselbloem is saying: "forget schengen, we need a mini-schengen" is what they say. and when i hear you compare the european union to the roman empire, i think that this view may be wrong. but you're right. let's talk about the results. will it be under the dutch presidency that schengen will fall apart? without a functioning register and distribution scheme, it will not work. i know that the challenge is very great and i hear you say that this is a priority for you, but we need results now in this area. will it be under the dutch presidency that one of the largest countries leaves the eu? we've already discussed it and i'm not going to say anything more about it. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. i expect you as prime minister of the netherlands to stick your neck out to win that campaign and not just let d66 or the green left play. you have a responsibility there, mr rutte. we need results. you mentioned cop21. that is also very important. i note that there is an agreement there to limit global warming to a maximum of two degrees and if possible to one and a half degrees. that means that europe has to rethink its objectives because all our legislation is geared towards the two-degree target. it's a job, and i expect you to do it. finally, i will use my last minute to speak about something you did not mention. the netherlands will not be european football champion this year. but the netherlands is a european champion in another area you have not mentioned, and that is tax evasion. there are others who are also vying for this title, but the dutch are perhaps european champions in this field. i see that portuguese companies which have no activity in the netherlands move to your country in a 'legal' or totally artificial way. i see that the largest supermarket chain in lithuania, called maxima, is moving to the netherlands, whereas it has no activity in your country. how long will the netherlands be considered a team player by the other 27 member states if it continues to steal money from its neighbours? i find this totally unacceptable. i do not hear anything about your priorities for a more common approach to business taxation. the commission has taken a number of initiatives in this area, but you say nothing about them. that means that the netherlands has no interest in this. by the way, i've been to your house several times. i saw eric wiebes, i heard dijsselbloem and nothing was said about that. you're gonna keep playing against the others, and you're definitely not alone, but this game has got to stop.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the successive crises have only increased the disillusionment and mistrust of european cooperation. and frankly, you can't blame the people. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left behind. the dutch presidency's motto is 'europe where necessary, national (and i would like to add regional) where possible'. this is the only correct attitude. we must not pretend that europe is the answer to everything, but show the necessary modesty. an open debate, without any taboos. in flanders, the dutch are known for this. only in this way can european cooperation prove its relevance. (the speaker will reply to a question on a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. no, what i said was 'europe where necessary and national where possible'. the european union has a role to play in the refugee crisis, and the reinforcement of external border controls is something we can only tackle with strong european cooperation. but that does not mean that we must always have a european solution to every problem. that's what i said.
i agree with a number of things you have said, in particular that europe must be relevant, that europe must deliver results, but also that europe must deliver on its promises. i want to talk to you about a very important promise. you may have spent half a sentence on it, but last year, at the end of 2015, we reached an incredibly important climate agreement in paris, in which the european commission played a very important role. i have a question about that. the next six months will be very important for us to turn the ambitious paris agreement - because we want to go no further than 1.5 degrees - into our own objectives. the objectives we have agreed on before will be insufficient and will have to be tightened up. i wonder whether you, as the dutch presidency (because you yourself do not have a particularly good track record on climate) will have the courage and strength to make these adjustments and set in motion an ambitious climate policy.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the positive opinion of the european parliament on the council's intention to allow latvia to participate in the system established by the prüm treaty, which promotes the exchange of data on the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime between the signatory states, with regard to vehicle registration data.
in writing. i welcome the positive opinion given by the european parliament to the draft council decision on the launch of automated data exchange on vehicle registration in latvia. i welcome the positive assessment of latvia's implementation of the data protection provisions, compliance with which is a prerequisite for the launch of the automated exchanges in question. latvia will now be able to receive and transmit such personal data. this is a further step in the crucial area of crossborder cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs. terrorism and crime know no borders and any deepening of cooperation between member states to combat these scourges more effectively is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which, in the light of council decision 2008/615/jha of 23 june 2008 on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, in particular with a view to combating terrorism and cross-border crime, and the european parliament's resolution of 10 october 2013 on strengthening cross-border cooperation in law enforcement matters in the union: implementation of the 'prüm decision' and the european model for the exchange of information, approves the council's draft and instructs the president of the european parliament to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mr moraes's draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange on vehicle registration in latvia. this programme is a symbol of better interaction between european services.
in writing. ‒ terrorism and organised crime do not know national borders. i can therefore only welcome further cooperation between member states which are willing to identify and combat this problem effectively.
in writing. ‒ this legislative report concerns the commission's proposal to guarantee a minimum level of protection of the principle of the presumption of innocence in all member states and to strengthen the right of accused persons to be present at their trial. the main elements are the presumption of innocence, the burden of proof, the right not to incriminate oneself, the right not to cooperate and the right to be present at the trial. the rapporteur has amended this proposal to strengthen its protective character for citizens, in particular with regard to the impossibility of reversing the burden of proof to the detriment of suspects, the inadmissibility of evidence obtained in breach of the principle of the presumption of innocence and the extent of the presumption of innocence. at a time when certain european governments are putting fundamental rights at risk, i have of course supported this report.
in writing. i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted this legislation which aims to strengthen a right as fundamental as the presumption of innocence in criminal proceedings. justice can only be virtuous if it effectively guarantees the basic principle of considering a person innocent as long as he has not been found guilty. it was a priority for the european parliament to ensure that the burden of proof was not reversed in any case. this implies that any doubt as to the question of guilt is to the advantage of the accused. the text also recalls a series of rights linked to the right to the presumption of innocence, such as the right to remain silent, the right not to incriminate oneself or the right to be present at trial.
in writing. ‒ the presumption of innocence is a fundamental right of citizens to avoid arbitrary decisions during criminal proceedings. this is what meps have been reminding us of this afternoon when they adopted by a very large majority (577 votes in favour) the new directive on the presumption of innocence negotiated by my friend nathalie griesbeck for the european parliament. the new european legislation is obviously not intended to interfere with the organisation of judicial systems and criminal proceedings by public authorities, which remain the prerogative of the member states, but to set minimum standards for fair trials throughout the european union. despite the existence of national legislation on the presumption of innocence, many violations of this principle still persist in europe. this is why this european directive is important in that it harmonises essential aspects of the presumption of innocence, such as the right not to be accused by public authorities before a trial or the conditions for the admissibility of evidence.
in writing. ‒ we adopted the draft agreement reached last november between the european parliament and the council of the european union on the directive on the presumption of innocence. this directive is to ensure that the principle of the presumption of innocence is applied throughout the union and member states will have to act accordingly until the guilt of the suspect has been proven, for example by avoiding handcuffing him unless these measures are strictly necessary. the text adopted recognises that the burden of proof should rest with the prosecutors and that any doubt raised should benefit the accused. furthermore, the right to remain silent should not be used against individuals. once formally adopted by the council, member states will have two years to transpose this text.
in writing. ‒ the main elements of the proposal therefore relate to the principle of the presumption of innocence, the burden of proof, the right not to incriminate oneself and not to cooperate, the right to remain silent, the right to be present at one's trial and the right to a retrial. it's a good report and i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the presumption of innocence is one of the most fundamental principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. judging in criminal proceedings is a delicate and dangerous undertaking: can and should never be an option. the damage of a miscarriage of justice in criminal proceedings is immense, and its impact can ruin the rest of a person's life. this new directive therefore aims to ensure that the presumption of innocence in criminal cases is better respected throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which aims to extend the scope of the current personal protective equipment directive (any device or means intended to be worn or held by a person to protect him or her against one or more risks to life or health) in order to better protect the health and safety of users of ppe. in particular, it removes the exclusions for products for private use providing protection against heat, moisture and water.
in writing. support for this regulation is intended to ensure the safety of certain protective clothing such as life jackets, bicycle helmets and sunglasses. the amendments are essential for legislation adapted to the products of the 21st century. consumer protection is not just about ensuring that the right price is paid, but also about ensuring that the product you buy is safe and of good quality. i support this regulation, which follows on from the interinstitutional agreement of 22 september last, which ensures the safety of products in a globalised world, and which does not hinder the market, by allowing manufacturers to benefit from a simplified procedure for renewing their certificates of conformity with health and safety rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation which aims to modernise the current, often confusing, regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which supports the proposal for a regulation to simplify and harmonise european legislation on the internal market for gas appliances by enhancing consumer safety and the rational use of energy.
in writing. the adoption of this regulation is primarily aimed at ensuring that consumers and the professionals concerned are afforded the necessary and identical protection, regardless of where the product is manufactured (gas stove, boiler). it was therefore necessary to introduce obligations both for economic operators and for the national entities responsible for verifying compliance with safety standards. the free movement of goods is one of the cornerstones of the european construction. it requires us to optimise our cooperation and to strengthen our competitiveness. it cannot be done at the expense of consumer protection but must, on the contrary, remain at the service of consumers.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this harmonisation text. the gas sector plays an important role in the union's economy and employs 476 000 people in the gas appliance sector alone. gas appliances cover a wide range of products, from simple gas stoves to boilers in large buildings, and the current stock of gas appliances is 470 million and growing, with more than 30 million units sold each year.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the directive to be transposed into a regulation. this will simplify the rules and national authorities will no longer be able to simply impose additional requirements in their national legislation.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution, which supports the proposal for a regulation to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cable installations and to ensure the free movement of products within the union. the proposal requires that all safety components and subsystems be designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential requirements laid down in the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. this proposal for a regulation is the result of an interinstitutional agreement on product safety reached in september 2015 on cable installations (ropeways and cableway installations). it aims to simplify and update the provisions of directive 2000/9/ec with a view to improving legal certainty. replacing a directive with a regulation is an appropriate legal instrument which, by imposing clear and detailed rules, introduces identical obligations for economic operators and national entities responsible for verifying compliance with safety standards. this is the only way to ensure uniform implementation throughout the union.
in writing. - compared to safety devices or gas-fuelled appliances, cable cars may not seem like our frequent companions and one might have doubts about the need for the proposed regulation. but here too, the same rules apply within the single market, and i am convinced that the proposal comes from our committee on the internal market and consumer protection in a rational form that deserves your support.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament yesterday put forward proposals for regulations to improve the safety of certain products. one of these concerns cable infrastructure (cableway, cable cars). the amendments to the regulations proposed by the european parliament will simplify and modernise the legislation in place for 25 years, which aims to prevent counterfeit or fraudulent security products from being placed on the market. those amendments introduce, in particular, certain obligations for economic operators and national entities responsible for verifying compliance with safety standards. manufacturers will also benefit from a simplified procedure for renewing their certificates of conformity with health and safety rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which deals with the question of the scope of application of directive 2000/9/ec on cable installations. as established in the impact assessment, which was positively assessed by the parliament's ex ante impact assessment unit, a majority of stakeholders cited improving legal clarity as one of the key objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the directive to be transposed into a regulation. this will simplify the rules and ensure their uniform application throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ this resolution objects to the council delegated regulation granting a scheme of generalised tariff preferences to kyrgyzstan. parliament considered that the human rights violations in kyrgyzstan were an obstacle to the granting of such preferential status. i approved this resolution.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, we voted on a motion of objection to a delegated regulation adopted by the european commission at the end of 2015 concerning the gsp+ preferential status granted to kyrgyzstan under the eu's generalised system of preferences (gsp). this objection motion was tabled to raise awareness of the deteriorating human rights situation in kyrgyzstan as reported by many ngos. it should be noted that the gsp+ is a system of tariff preferences granted by the eu member states to developing countries which show efforts in the field of good governance (implementation of international conventions on human rights, labour rights and sustainable development). a recent report by the commission on kyrgyzstan lists serious cases of systematic torture in custody in the country and denounces neglect of the rights of women and children and discrimination against uzbeks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which notes that the monitoring bodies of the relevant conventions have identified clear deficiencies in relation to a number of relevant gsp+ conventions and considers that the deficiencies outlined above constitute a serious failure in the effective implementation of the relevant conventions.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because no major or systematic errors were found in the kyrgyz application. in addition, the gsp+ instrument can serve as an incentive to bring about further positive changes in the kyrgyz republic.
in writing. ‒ the resolution rejects a commission proposal which would have the effect of making baby food contain much more sugar than recommended by the world health organisation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the use of sugar in the community. the same applies to the use of genetically modified substances. although i voted in favour of the resolution, i regret that the points on which the vote was taken on zero tolerance for pesticides did not receive a majority. i, for my part, will continue to campaign for the banning of carcinogens such as glyphosate.
in writing. ‒ the resolution is aimed at opposing a council regulation which lays down the compositional requirements for cereal-based preparations and baby food. parliament considered that the regulation did not provide for sufficient measures to protect infants and young children against obesity and that the maximum sugar content had to be considerably reduced to bring it back to a level in line with the who recommendations.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation did not support the objection to the proposal for a delegated act on processed cereal-based foods and baby foods. the existing legislation (namely regulation (eu) no 609/2013) rightly ensures that the eu applies the most stringent standards on baby food. the delegated act should contribute to ensuring a consistent interpretation and application of this legislation across the eu-28 while providing adequate protection for this vulnerable group. this must be worked out as quickly as possible. however, supporting the objection would be a confirmation of the status quo. the call for zero tolerance on pesticide residues seems neither realistic nor practical: the legislation already - and rightly so - contains very strict maximum levels of pesticide residues. however, the sugar content is a legitimate point of discussion and cause for concern. the n-va supported the amendments calling for the limitation of added sugar content and taking into account the scientific evidence on the effects of added sugar and the findings of the efsa study on this. in the fight against obesity, the n-va welcomes the european commission's explicit commitment to this issue.
in writing. ‒ i would like to emphasise that, although i did not support the resolution as a whole, i am against the use of gmos because i am sceptical about this area. especially in the area we're talking about, i'd be careful about gmo stuffing.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, in addition to voting in favour in the final vote, i supported amendments which recommend reducing the intake of free sugars to less than 10% of the total energy intake in cereal-based preparations and baby foods and which consider that reducing the intake of sugars to less than 5% would have additional benefits for infant health. i also supported the provision that emerging technologies such as gmos should be banned from baby and child food in accordance with the precautionary principle.
in writing. - i voted for this text. i am against any derogation from the principle of zero tolerance for pesticides, which should be explicitly mentioned in annex iii, which should be regularly updated with increasingly stringent maximum residue limits in the light of new scientific evidence demonstrating the health effects of active substances and their metabolites. i also voted for amendment no 2, which enshrines the precautionary principle in relation to gmos.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the joint resolution which takes note with satisfaction of the agreements reached between the colombian government and the farc in favour of peace. parliament stressed the sustained efforts made by the various actors involved and the importance of the agreements on comprehensive rural reform, political participation and democratic openness for peacebuilding and on the solution to the problem of illicit drugs. parliament called for the negotiations to be concluded as soon as possible in order to put an end to the violence and bring about lasting peace in a country which has been ravaged by violence for too long.
in writing. it is essential that 2016 marks the end of the crisis in colombia, a crisis that has lasted far too long. after 50 years of uninterrupted armed conflict, a conflict that has claimed more than 220 000 lives, 81,5% of them civilians, and 15 000 missing persons, it is essential to support this country in the peace process that began in 2012 and to encourage the final signing of an agreement announced in march 2016. we therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution, which expresses our willingness to support colombia in this peace process with a view to the establishment of a stable state based on the rule of law and a judicial system which respects the rights of its citizens. the text not only underlines the efforts made by the colombian government and the farcs on the one hand and the international community on the other to reach a peace agreement, but also stresses the need to continue to encourage the negotiation process. colombia is a partner of the union to whom we must give encouragement, assistance and support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which considers that the end of this internal conflict, which has claimed millions of victims over more than 50 years, and the establishment of a stable and lasting peace in colombia are a priority for that country, but also for the european union and the international community. the text of the resolution also calls on the national liberation army (eln) to make a firm commitment to peace in colombia as soon as possible and urges it to enter into parallel negotiations with the colombian government which could take place under similar conditions. finally, we welcomed the decision of 1 october 2015 by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, federica mogherini, to appoint eamon gilmore, former minister for foreign affairs and trade of the republic of ireland, as the european union special envoy for the peace process in colombia, and welcomed the monitoring mission of the un office of the high commissioner for human rights in colombia to monitor the human rights situation in the context of the peace agreements.
in writing. - i voted for this text. however, i urge colombia to continue its reforms in favour of respect for labour rights and human rights in general. we also call on the national liberation army (eln) to make a firm commitment to peace in colombia as soon as possible and urge it to enter into parallel negotiations with the colombian government which could take place under similar conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the peace process in colombia because it welcomes the agreement between the government and the farc. the resolution also calls on the national liberation army (eln) to enter into peace negotiations. we in the european parliament must support this peace process because after more than 50 years of violence in colombia there is at last hope for peace.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr fabius, welcome to the house. mr president, let me congratulate mr fabius on behalf of the whole group on the excellent work he has done as the french presidency. mr fabius, the way you prepared the cop21, the way you managed it, was brilliant and outstanding and there was a result. so, thank you so much. but let me thank you too, mr commissioner. the commission also took a very important role. you managed to keep ambitions high, you were building bridges towards the different coalitions who negotiated and you supported the french presidency, and maybe the combination of the two of you made the agreement happen. it cannot be overestimated how important that is. for the very first time, in paris almost all states all over the world developing countries and emerging economies have committed themselves to taking the necessary measures to tackle climate change. in that sense, paris is the very first universal agreement, and that is crucial and of crucial importance for the future. as you yourself mentioned, mr fabius, 2015 was on its way to becoming an annus horribilis with the problems in the war in the middle east, ukraine, the refugee crisis and, of course, the attacks in paris. these events made the world look divided, and made europe look divided. the climate agreement in that sense is a game changer and a reason to become at least a little bit optimistic about the future, and paris the city of lights has also become the city of hope. that is very encouraging. however, not everything was a success, we have to admit that. one of the most striking examples is the international aviation and shipping industry. we all know that they represent a lot of emissions: the emissions of these two sectors, for example, can be compared with the emissions of south korea and germany put together, and these are rising. in the years to come, by 2050, they will rise by 270%, and we have to admit that we failed in that we could not include that in the agreement. so, my additional question to both of you is this: how will we deal with that in the next year to come? how will we make sure that these two very important sectors will be part of future implementation? on the level of agreement - and here i do not agree with my colleague from the epp - i think that agreement on 2°c decreasing to 1.5°c is very important and that, if we want, we can achieve that. but then, that will mean that we cannot lean back. we cannot lean back in europe either. we have a good agreement, but it is this just on paper. if we want to succeed, we need to implement it and that means i am looking to the commissioner in particular more ambitious targets than we have had up until now. we had targets for 2030 and 2050. we have to admit that we took the lower end of these targets when the ipcc made the calculations. we said 80% for 2050. we should go now to the higher end, and make sure that our emissions go down 95% by 2050. so we need to look to the world, but we can only look to the world if we take our own responsibilities. i am looking to the commission again: when can we see further developments in that sense? that needs to be done before the finalisation of the revision of the current legislation, for example, as mentioned, before the ets. let me conclude by addressing you again, mr fabius, as a final remark. we are very grateful for the work you have done. as i said before, we have a lot of work ahead of us and you are not only the president of cop21 but also the foreign minister of a very important member state, so you now have the moral duty - together with all of us, of course - to take up that responsibility, and we are counting on you.
i have listened carefully to what you have said, mr hahn, but i must join the previous speakers. the reality is that the turkish army has recreated kurdistan in a war zone and in a bloodbath. violence is rampant in kurdish villages, entire neighborhoods are razed to the ground, residents wait in their shelters until the violence stops and bodies are lying in the streets. in essence, this violence is the result of the growing authoritarianism of erdogan and his party. his priority is not the fight against is, his priority is absolute power and the fight against the kurds. the western allies are silent: no criticism, no judgment, and you know it. we need erdogan to contain the refugee crisis and that is why, mr hahn, i am ashamed, deeply ashamed that the european union does not dare to straighten its backbone to defend the kurdish citizens, to protect them. this ancient, proud people of the region, the only reliable ally in the fight against isis, is getting stabbed in the back. i want to know what the european commission will do. the accession negotiations are resuming. make the protection of minorities a priority, make it a condition. i thought history had taught us that silence is never the right choice.
today's report by mrs lunacek is about an important stabilisation and association agreement. this is a first and very important step towards further rapprochement with the european union. it therefore deserves our full support. we will also be voting on the 2015 progress report shortly. if it's going well, it's okay to say it. there's been progress. we must fully support kosovo to become a society of freedom and progress.
this is the first time that a member state has invoked article 42 (7). it is also unique in that it received a unanimous 'yes' from the 27 countries. i would like to draw your attention to two points: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already taken the initiative in this matter. would we not have had a more genuine european response? will you consider developing a procedure so that the european commission can take action on this matter next time if necessary? the second. mrs mogherini, for me it is really a momentum, a catalyst moment. if we cannot now, after these events, take steps towards building a european defence, a genuine european armed force, i do not know when it will happen. so, to be very specific: how will you use this momentum to move towards building a genuine defence union?
as the very last item on a very busy day, just before midnight, with 15 of the more than 741 members in this parliament, we shall be debating human rights. if i were to be so unkind, i would almost say that this is a good way of drawing a conclusion about the place of human rights in the european union. however, i am not here in bad faith, i am here only to remind you and to link the issue of human rights with immigration and the way in which it has completely got out of hand in 2015 under the impulse of eu policy through a misinterpretation of schengen, through a misinterpretation of the geneva convention and through the open borders policy of the european union. human rights require a stable environment and with your immigration policy you have helped to destroy that stable environment in europe. we have seen this in a horrific way in cologne, where for the first time on european soil human rights have been massively violated. when you organize immigration further, you must also bear in mind that human rights are not given for free. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mrs mogherini, it is late at night and we are here with very few people in the chamber, but we are talking about very important matters. we will vote on the resolution tomorrow to set priorities. i'm just going to make three or four points. firstly, we are right to talk about women's rights. i am very proud as a member of alde that we also speak about sexual and reproductive rights and health. i think abortion is one of those things, especially after sexual assault. i know, mrs mogherini, that you share that view, "boss in your own belly". the second. children's rights, we talk about that a lot. today, unicef is making a save the children appeal. thousands of children walk in the cold on those escape routes. we have to make sure that we don't let kids freeze to death on those escape routes now. the third. reference is made to burundi. in march i pointed out that there was a genocide going on and called for action. i want to repeat this here today. 4. other in conclusion: israel, palestine, you know. the council has not yet adopted the common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
"blue card" question. what is it? i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the fight against terrorism. i am not disputing that there are indeed foreign fighters leaving our country, and we are making a real effort to do so. but i would very much like to hear from you what action you are taking throughout europe - because the problem is in all european countries - to prevent young people growing up in europe from actually going over there to fight a war that is not theirs.
i would like to invite the honourable member to come with me to mechelen, where we have a liberal mayor. no foreign fighter has left mechelen. we're working on integration, to bring people into the community, so they feel included here! so, colleague, i would like to invite you to come with me next week to visit the city of mechelen, where they did fight. and for those of you who wish to join us, you are of course welcome to do so!
in writing. ‒ the stabilisation and association agreement provides for enhanced political dialogue and closer economic integration. it involves strengthening democratic principles and human rights and creates a framework for cooperation in areas such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs. the agreement, which i have approved, is an important step towards closer relations between the european union and kosovo.
in writing. we welcome the european parliament's approval of the signing of the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement, which marks the strengthening of eu-kosovo relations. the agreement, which creates the necessary space for enhanced political dialogue and closer trade integration, is a cornerstone of kosovo's reconstruction. the agreement not only aims to encourage the implementation of the reforms necessary for stability in the country but also constitutes a crucial step towards effective cooperation between brussels and pristina. the key function of the agreement in strengthening eu-kosovo relations should be underlined. the cooperation framework provides for a series of measures leading to legislative approximation between the eu and kosovo by introducing provisions to promote the application of european standards in certain areas, and with a view to the establishment of a free trade area. finally, we support this agreement which promotes the country's growth prospects and also economic exchanges between the ems and kosovo, thus sending a positive signal to the kosovar citizens.
in writing. ‒ this recommendation includes the european parliament's decision, which is necessary in the framework of the ratification procedure of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european union and kosovo. after receiving the approval of the european parliament, the procedure is for the saa to enter into force in the first half of next year. once in force, the saa will establish a contractual relationship involving mutual rights and obligations and covering a wide range of sectors. the saa shall emphasise respect for core democratic principles and fundamental elements which are at the heart of the union's single market. it will create an area for free trade and the application of european standards in other areas, such as competition, state aid and intellectual property. it will also contribute to the implementation of reforms that will enable kosovo to adopt european standards. other provisions, of course, also concern political dialogue and cooperation in a wide range of areas, from education and employment to energy and the environment, justice and home affairs.
in writing. - i voted for the text. the agreement establishes contractual relations which provide for enhanced political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation. it covers many areas, including respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, and creates a framework for cooperation in areas such as education, energy, the environment, justice and home affairs. it also contains provisions to promote the application of european standards in the fields of competition, public procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection, among others, and to establish a free trade area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the stabilisation and association agreement between the eu and kosovo. the european parliament, by giving its consent to this agreement, underlines the strengthening of the bond between the european union and kosovo. in fact, this agreement is an important first step towards the european accession process and european integration for the republic of kosovo.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the proposed appointments so that the committee of inquiry can be set up as soon as possible, which will hopefully shed light on the 'dieselgate'.
in writing. ‒ we voted today in favour of the list of 45 meps and alternates who will take part in the committee of inquiry into the volkswagen car scandal. i would remind you that i was one of those who voted in favour of setting up a committee of inquiry; i am therefore particularly pleased that it can now begin its work and i am counting on the quality of the work of my belgian colleague ivo belet to help to improve the image of the quality of european industrial production.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry into the measurement of emissions in the automotive sector and wish them well. europe must be fair and not treat large companies and citizens differently.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector. the committee will continue to investigate the alleged breaches of european law that led to the so-called 'dieselgate' scandal over the next year.
mr president, i come from the czech republic, representing the czech republic, a country which has had a great deal of experience, unfortunately tragic, from the period of communist totalitarianism. that is why i will always support the eastern partnership projects and will support any economic cooperation between the european union and the countries of the former soviet union. for me, the reason is mostly geopolitical. russia never sleeps and it is clear that it has a great interest in strengthening its influence in the countries of the former soviet union, and we can see this today and every day, see the current problems that are arising in moldova. so it is necessary to offer the countries of the former soviet union an open hand, to see them as partners, to want to cooperate with them and, through the agreements on the table, to improve their economic situation. but as i said, for me personally, the main reason is geopolitical, to be a partner to the former soviet union countries and not to put them on the defensive, so that russia is the only country that wants to communicate with them.
i want to make it clear why i voted against this. this association agreement with ukraine is not about free trade, but only about geopolitical power. the european union is playing a particularly dangerous game by interfering in this conflict and further pitting countries against each other. if the european union is so keen on free trade, let it remove the trade barriers against russia. the consequences for many european farmers are enormous. by supporting a questionable uprising in ukraine, people like guy verhofstadt have only exacerbated the problems and have certainly not served the occupied democracy. conclusion i am not saying that we should be in favour of free trade, but we should condemn any violation of sovereignty. but a hypocritical association agreement to prepare countries like ukraine for eu membership and the introduction of a new cold war, no.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the proposal to finalise association agreements with these three countries. this is a necessary step towards stabilising these countries by strengthening their democratic systems and developing their economic growth through in-depth economic exchanges. particular attention will also be paid to combating social and environmental dumping.
in writing. the association agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine are essential in my view because they provide a clear framework for our relations with these three countries. the eu's support to these countries in implementing these agreements is essential for their stability. moreover, these agreements also reflect a long-term policy of stability, prosperity and democracy on the european continent. in particular, the eu-ukraine agreement, although it represents a whole series of stumbling blocks with russia, is a fundamental mechanism to encourage the promotion of human rights in ukraine and a solid basis for strengthening our trade relations. in general, these agreements create a framework for cooperation whose usefulness is no longer to be defended. these stimulate the strengthening of the rule of law and give impetus to the fight against corruption, two essential parameters in the framework of the reforms undertaken by these countries with a view to their stability. there is still work to be done, and we welcome the general willingness of the european parliament to encourage these three countries to go further in these reforms.
in writing. ‒ "russia must stop getting directly or indirectly involved in the conflicts in georgia, moldova and ukraine, and interfering with their european aspirations", says a resolution on reform progress we voted on today. the text of the resolution welcomes the progress made by georgia, moldova and ukraine, which have chosen the path of closer political and economic integration with the european union. we have called on russia to cease its direct or indirect involvement in the conflicts in these territories, including its occupation of crimea. finally, one year after the ratification of the three association agreements and the comprehensive and deep free trade agreement with the union, we also mentioned the reforms that still need to be adopted and we took note of the dutch referendum on the eu-ukraine agreement on 6 april. it is noted that in the first 12 months, exports from georgia to the union increased by 15% and those from moldova by 62%. similar growth is expected for ukrainian exports. while recalling that these countries can apply for membership if they meet the necessary criteria, parliament also pointed out that financial support from the european union is conditional on progress in concrete reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text to emphasise the importance of the association agreements and their components relating to a deep and comprehensive free trade area. the progress made so far can be welcomed and it can be stressed that the implementation of the deep and comprehensive association and free trade agreements and associated association programmes must be a top priority for the union and the three partners. it should be recalled that the council of the european union signed the association agreements unanimously.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am convinced that free trade agreements are one of the european union's best instruments for achieving economic and democratic progress.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november, france invoked the mutual defence clause in article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union, a first in the eu. in this resolution, parliament stressed the unanimous support given to france by the member states and the provision of additional resources in the fight against terrorism. it considered that this first meeting was an opportunity to relaunch the debate on the organisation of an effective, rapid and coordinated response when a member state invokes this clause and asks the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to propose the modalities and guidelines. i supported that resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wishes to see the eu support member states who wish to take steps towards closer defence cooperation. this 'coalition of the willing' is the perfect step towards further europeanisation of defence through far-reaching, structured cooperation. we therefore want the eu to operate from a permanent military headquarters. such an operational headquarters is a must in order to be able to respond effectively to threats - as now requested by france - and to carry out collective defence more quickly and effectively, in close cooperation with nato.
in writing. as daesh terrorist attacks against member states and our citizens increase, and in the spirit of an effective response to the crises facing the union, we welcome the adoption of this resolution on the mutual defence clause referred to in article 42 (7) of the eu treaty. the first use of this clause by france in november 2015 following terrorist attacks on its territory calls us to look at the possibilities of the 28 member states to respond to the crises they face and thus leads us to the revision of this clause. despite the general commitment of the 28 following the call from france, the modalities of implementation and application of this clause remain undefined to this day and we are very concerned about this. we call on the hr/vp to address this lack of clarity and to provide guidance on this clause so that we can respond effectively when it is invoked. by adopting this resolution, we call on the hr/vp, the commission and the council to revise the basis of this clause, as we believe that clarification of its application is essential.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november 2015, france called on eu member states to provide it with assistance and assistance, including the exchange of intelligence, to fight against the islamic state. it relied on article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union, which states that 'if a member state is the object of armed aggression on its territory, the other member states have an obligation to assist and assist it by all means'. today, with the adoption of this resolution, we have unanimously supported france. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we called on eu member states to look at ways to build more effective cooperation between border management agencies, police and other law enforcement services and to improve the exchange of information on the movement of weapons, explosives and suspected terrorists. we also suggested the establishment of eu civilian-military headquarters to prepare contingency plans, including for collective defence.
in writing. ‒ the n-va voted in favour of this joint resolution because it believes in the added value that a european army can offer. the pooling of military resources at european level is nevertheless a long-term project. in the meantime, ad hoc bilateral and multilateral cooperation, including on the basis of article 42 (7) teu, should be built upon. there is no need to revise this article in the meantime, because it would involve the eu institutions more or subject the whole to more rules. what works doesn't have to be fun. in the military field, strengthening ties with like-minded states is the best guarantee for building trust and moving towards more structural mechanisms. the question of what defence policy should be linked to it and how it should relate to the nato framework is a complex one. this question is currently being discussed in the context of the development of a new external security and defence strategy, which is being developed by federica mogherini as high representative for this policy area.
in writing. - i share the ideas in this text. i condemn in the strongest terms the terrible terrorist attacks perpetrated by the islamic state group. the european parliament expresses its deepest sympathy and solidarity and con­solates with all the victims of the terrorist attacks and their families.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it draws attention to the fact that the mutual defence clause (article 42 (7) of the treaty on european union) has been invoked for the first time. at the same time, i regret that the application of article 42 (7) teu has still not been developed in an efficient and concrete way. the european parliament calls on the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, the european council and the european commission to clarify the means and procedures under the mutual defence clause. i am also firmly convinced that the invoking of this clause by france is a unique opportunity to lay the foundations for a strong and lasting european defence union.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this joint resolution which first of all recalls the importance of the members of the human rights council being elected from among the representatives of states which ensure respect for the rule of law, human rights and democracy. it also stressed the importance of preserving the independence and integrity of the high commissioner for human rights, in particular by providing him with sufficient resources. parliament also expressed concern at constitutional revisions which would change the maximum number of presidential terms of office and condemned the continued use of harassment and detention of human rights defenders and opposition figures by government forces in a number of third countries. it reaffirms the eu's zero tolerance for the death penalty and torture, recalls the fundamental right to free elections with universal suffrage and stresses respect for economic and social rights, which are being undermined, in particular, by the rise in poverty.
in writing. in this resolution, the european parliament has set out its priorities for the unhrc sessions in 2016. respect for, and promotion and safeguarding of, the universality of human rights are part of the legal and ethical acquis of the european union. respect for and promotion of respect for human rights are at the heart of the european union's external and multilateral action. europe must at all times continue to play its leading role in the protection of human rights, both in europe and in the world. the resolution lists issues such as migration and human rights, the pursuit of a moratorium on the death penalty and torture, and freedom of religion and belief, which it calls for the human rights council to discuss. the events of the past few months have shown us that respect for human rights and universal values must be safeguarded. although i support the aim and purpose of this resolution, i abstained in the final vote because it is accompanied by a list of countries which are requested to be subject to universal periodic review and to which rwanda does not have to belong.
the european union is the world's largest exporter of goods and services. all these countries are flagrant and widespread violators of human rights, and yet they are among the 47 countries that sit on the united nations human rights council. ironically, it is this intergovernmental body, created in 2006, that has been given the responsibility of strengthening the promotion and protection of human rights around the globe. in short, this council is a sham and would justify a thoroughgoing reform! this is the main reason why i am opposing the final vote on the resolution adopted this afternoon by the european parliament on the european priorities of the human rights council for 2016. there is also reason to wonder about the bias that prevailed in the establishment of a subjective list of countries: why is rwanda on the infamous list without any words of encouragement for everything that president kagame has put in place? why not zimbabwe, maldives and so many others? why israel and the middle east again, without even lamenting the stabbing of israeli civilians. a guilty subjectivity which does not do honour to this european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which expresses concern at the constitutional revisions undertaken by some countries to change the maximum number of presidential terms, a subject which in some cases has given rise to electoral violence. the text also recalls that freedom of expression and a dynamic and favourable environment for an independent and pluralistic civil society are essential conditions for the defence of respect for human rights. the resolution condemns the continued harassment and detention of human rights defenders and opposition figures by government forces in a number of third countries. it also reaffirmed the eu's zero tolerance for the death penalty and its long-standing opposition to torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment in all cases and under all circumstances. the text also stresses the importance of the european union continuing to promote the moratorium on the death penalty as a first step towards its abolition and the need to promote absolute equality for minorities in third countries in all areas of economic, social and political life.
in writing. - i voted for this proposal. it is essential to preserve the independence and integrity of the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights in order to ensure that it can continue to carry out its mandate effectively and impartially.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution. the un human rights council has an important role to play in the defence of human rights at the global level. this resolution seeks to draw attention to the violations of these human rights: the european union has a duty to help the victims of the holocaust, to help the victims of the holocaust, to help the victims of the migrant crisis, to help the victims of the human rights crisis, to help the victims of the death penalty, and so on. the report also highlights the critical state of human rights in conflict areas such as syria, yemen and burundi.
in writing. ‒ the committee on petitions received 27 114 petitions in 2014, double the number in 2009. however, this figure is still low when all the citizens of the european union are taken into account. the subjects covered include fundamental rights, disabled people, the internal market, etc. it should be noted that the committee on petitions stresses the concerns and rejection of citizens regarding ttip and the opaque negotiations in which the commission is participating. these concerns have been expressed in numerous petitions received and the commission is invited to implement urgently the recommendations made by the european ombudsman in this regard. this is yet another sign of growing popular discontent with both the content of ttip and the conduct of the negotiations. i approved this annual report.
in writing. the effective exercise of the right to petition is the indispensable corollary of european citizenship. the inclusion of this right in article 44 of the charter of the european union is symbolic of its importance and of its status as a fundamental right. it is therefore a matter of great satisfaction that more than 2714 petitions were received during 2014. conscious of the need to promote this citizens' initiative in order to contribute to the strengthening of the european democratic ideal, the union must make every effort to ensure that this right is exercised effectively and that it is translated into concrete and tangible political achievements. to this end, cooperation between all the institutional actors concerned must be strengthened. thus, the european parliament's committees, in their respective fields of competence, must be involved in the petitioning process. the same applies to the european ombudsman and the member states, whose active participation is necessary for the democratic transparency of the union and for the proper follow-up to requests from all our citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in 2014, 69,5% of the petitions received (1 887 petitions) were closed at the beginning of the procedure, either because they were declared inadmissible (39,4%), or because, although admissible, they were closed immediately after the petitioners were provided with information, or after they were forwarded for information to another parliamentary committee competent in the matter (30,1%). as for the response to petitions, it can be seen that follow-up for information increased (+ 13.6%) and follow-up for opinions to other parliamentary committees decreased (- 3.6%), as did requests for opinions to the european commission (- 8.8%). finally, justice remains the main area of concern for the petitioners in 2014, followed by the environment, the functioning of the internal market, fundamental rights and health. it should be noted that the number of petitions concerning the restitution of property has decreased sharply compared to previous years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by my colleague mr geringer. the committee on petitions as a point of contact for citizens, the european ombudsman and the european citizens' initiative form a set of fundamental instruments for achieving greater political participation of citizens, who must be guaranteed easy, appropriate and transparent access to these instruments. these instruments have a responsibility in promoting european citizenship and enhancing the visibility and credibility of the union institutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the committee on petitions is essential to ensure the link between eu citizens and eu institutions. the treaties provide that all european citizens have the right to inform the european parliament of the various types of problems they encounter in their daily lives, as long as the problems fall within the competence of the european union. the right to petition the european parliament is one of the most direct channels between our parliament and the people.
author. ethnic groups, such as the oromo and the amhara, are suffering from their opposition work in ethiopia. they're the target of organized violence. the east african country may be among the best students of the african class in terms of economic growth and human development, but its human rights situation is anything but rosy. so clearly, state-led growth has a downside. the government barely tolerates participation, and free journalism is not an easy profession. ethiopia is a half-open prison for opposition members and journalists. the commission has also been making a number of recommendations to the council. one example is the "addis ababa master plan", a blueprint to expand the capital into the oromiya region. this sparked peaceful protests that crushed the troops with a heavy hand, with a sad toll of 140 dead. under intense pressure, that plan was shelved. the situation has calmed down, but it will remain precarious if political freedom is not allowed. if ethiopia is to secure its economic progress and be a legitimate donor darling of the european union, change is urgently needed!
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. what is going on in the mind of this great leader kim jong-un? north korea is synonymous with colorless sadness. the few objective reports from that open-air prison show the enslavement of the north korean people and the continuing human rights violations. no one is allowed to have an opinion or freedom. political opponents are subjected to gruesome deaths, carefully selected and graduated by deliberate starvation, forced labour, summary executions and inhuman brutality. the hydrogen experiment was also condemned by neighbor and ally china. of course, beijing was silent on human rights in all languages. just like russia, by the way. the two countries are in the same boat, of course; to speak of north korean violations would be hypocritical. but the union, commissioner, must not be silent! we owe it to those hundreds of thousands of innocent people, the hungry children with no future, the lost generations of north koreans. we owe it to ourselves, too, to look the other way would be too easy.
president of the european central bank. – mr president, we are undoubtedly at a point in time when the cohesion of europe is being tested. many of the challenges we must confront are european or even global in nature, and these challenges demand a strong european response. i am therefore grateful to be back in this assembly – a symbol of the need for european debates and european solutions. today we are discussing the annual report of the european central bank for 2014. in that year, the governing council adopted a series of measures to respond to the impairment of our monetary policy transmission channels and to the low inflation environment. these measures included two reductions in key ecb interest rates, the announcement of targeted long-term refinancing operations, and two purchase programmes for asset-backed securities and covered bonds. 2014 was also marked by the start of the activities of the single supervisory mechanism and the completion of the comprehensive assessment. but rather than looking backwards, allow me to focus on the challenges that still lie ahead of us. first, i will briefly explain our current monetary policy and why we will re-assess our stance at our march meeting. second, i would like to discuss the economic challenges we face and what it takes to address them. i am acutely aware that the focus of policymakers lies elsewhere for the moment. but let me be quite clear: economic success is also part of the solution in other fields. therefore, mitigating economic risks deserves to be high on the political agenda. it was about three years ago that inflation started moving away from the ecb’s medium-term inflation aim of below, but close to, 2%. since october 2013, inflation has been below 1%. throughout 2015, headline inflation in the euro area was very low or even negative, remaining under the influence of low commodity prices. euro area annual hicp inflation was estimated at 0.4% in january this year. in parallel to this trend, we had to continually revise our outlook for inflation: while at the start of 2015 our staff was forecasting inflation to reach 1.5% in 2016 and 1.8% in 2017, in december they projected a rate of only 1% for this year, and 1.6% for 2017. against this backdrop, the ecb decided in december to act again. our assessment of the monetary policy stance had two parts. first, we noted that the measures put in place since the summer of 2014 had been very effective. the monetary stimulus that they introduced led to a broad-based easing of financing conditions, stimulated credit provision and has since provided substantial support to the euro area recovery. without these measures, the euro area would have been in outright deflation last year and prices would have fallen at an even quicker pace this year. growth would have been significantly lower. second, while our measures were deemed effective, they were also judged to be insufficient in view of the deteriorating outlook for price stability. there was a concrete risk that without increasing the quantitative stimulus, the date by which inflation would settle around levels below, but close to, 2% would once more be pushed back beyond any relevant definition of medium-term. therefore, we decided to recalibrate our monetary policy stance. we cut the deposit facility rate further to -0.3%; we extended the envisaged end-date for our monthly purchases to the end of march 2017, while maintaining its conditionality on the inflation outlook; and we announced that we would reinvest the principal payments of our purchased assets once they mature, for as long as necessary. we also decided to continue conducting the main refinancing operations and the three-month longer-term refinancing operations as fixed rate tender procedures with full allotment for as long as necessary, and at least until the end of the last reserve maintenance period of 2017. since our meeting in early december, conditions have once more changed. a moderate recovery of the euro area economy is under way, driven mainly by domestic demand. but downside risks have increased again and there is heightened uncertainty about emerging market economies’ growth prospects, volatility in financial and commodity markets, and geopolitical risks. inflation dynamics are also tangibly weaker than we expected in december. while the most recent wave of disinflation is mainly due to the renewed sharp fall in oil prices, weaker than anticipated growth in wages together with declining inflation expectations call for careful analysis of the channels by which surprises to realised inflation may influence future price and wage-setting in our economy. therefore, at our last meeting in january we judged that it would be necessary to review and possibly reconsider our monetary policy stance at our next monetary policy meeting in early march, when the new staff macroeconomic projections will be made available. our monetary policy is working, and the ecb is willing to contribute its share to ensuring that recovery remains firmly on track. but there are risks that – if they were to materialise – could undermine its course. the policy challenges we face are fourfold. they relate to the global environment, the situation of the financial system, the economic and fiscal policies of member states and the political uncertainty surrounding the european project. first, as regards the global environment: growth prospects are slowly improving in advanced economies, but the outlook in emerging markets is more subdued. overall, growth is low by historical standards. moreover, emerging markets are facing economic and financial risks: some are suffering from structural impediments and macroeconomic imbalances, while others have to adjust to lower commodity prices. they remain vulnerable to an abrupt shift in risk sentiment that could tighten financing conditions. a key issue is how emerging markets will be impacted by tighter financing conditions and the ensuing capital outflows, and to what extent this will have repercussions for euro area foreign demand. against this background, ensuring the continued resilience of the euro area economy is paramount. second, there are policy challenges related to our financial markets. the euro area financial system weathered several episodes of stress in the second half of last year. this is a sign that a lot has already been achieved with the establishment of banking union – which, however, is not complete yet. to make our financial system truly safe and sound, we need to progress in two main domains, which complement each other. on the one hand, we need to finalise and implement the work we started when establishing the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism as the initial pillars of banking union. this includes further regulatory work to harmonise our rules for supervisory action and to ensure a consistent application of the bank recovery and resolution directive’s (brrd) bail-in provisions. on the other hand, we need a common public backstop for the single resolution fund to strengthen its credibility, and we need to ensure that confidence in the safety of deposits is equally high in all euro area member states by establishing a european deposit insurance scheme. ‘risk-reduction’ and ‘risk-sharing’ measures are two sides of the same coin and should be pursued in parallel: they are all essential to protecting the stability of the european banking sector. third, there are challenges related to the fiscal and economic policies of member states that require decisive policy action. fiscal policies should contribute to the economic recovery. at the same time, they should be in full compliance with the requirements of the stability and growth pact. this is important to maintain confidence in the european fiscal framework and in the sustainability of public finances. moreover, countries would benefit from a more growth-friendly composition of fiscal policies. this involves greater efficiency of public sector services and moving to a more growth-friendly tax system. but the ongoing cyclical recovery in the euro area should also be supported by effective structural policies, particularly actions to improve the business environment, including the provision of an adequate public infrastructure. such actions are vital to increase productive investment, boost job creation and raise productivity. if reforms are credible, carefully chosen and well designed, their positive effects can be felt quickly, particularly in the context of our supportive monetary policy stance. fourth and finally, there is still political uncertainty surrounding the european project. this is true in the broader context of our union. a solution that would anchor the united kingdom firmly within the eu while allowing the euro area to integrate further would boost confidence. the economic and monetary union architecture also remains an unfinished construction. citizens and markets are too often unsure about our capacity to act jointly in a spirit of common responsibility. we should prove them wrong. let me conclude and come back to the subject of our debate: your resolution on our annual report for 2014. let me assure you that we are reading this document closely. it reminds us of our duty as a public institution to conduct our business in a transparent and accountable manner. the publication of the diaries of members of the executive board that starts this month is only one example of this. i am looking forward to the debate and thank you for your attention.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, first let me thank the rapporteur, mr marias, and his colleagues on the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ), for their work on this report. this ex-post assessment of the european central bank (ecb) activities by the european parliament is an important part of democratic accountability and a necessary complement to the ecb’s independence. the commission shares parliament’s view that the ecb’s independence, in the conduct of its monetary policy as enshrined in the treaties, is crucial to safeguard price stability. the monetary policy in the euro area is the exclusive competence of the ecb. with its monetary policy measures over the past years, including interest rate cuts, a series of targeted long-term refinancing operations and an expanded assets purchase programme, the ecb has acted to address the risks of an excessively long period of very low inflation. these measures include bank lending to the euro area non—financial private sector to help reduce financial fragmentation. they should support the economy and bring inflation closer to the ecb’s target of below, but close to, 2% over the medium term. the eu economy is continuing with a moderate recovery, and it is supported by certain tailwinds, such as low oil prices, the aforementioned accommodatory monetary policy and a correspondingly lower euro exchange rate, which is favourable for european exporters. at the same time we are also facing headwinds from geopolitical tensions in our neighbourhood – both our southern and eastern neighbourhoods – and from the slowdown in emerging markets. the global gdp growth forecast has also somewhat deteriorated. it is against this backdrop that we will be updating our economic forecast on thursday with our winter economic forecast. the commission fully shares parliament’s view that europe cannot only rely on monetary policy and a favourable external environment to lift gdp growth and to raise our economy’s growth potential. member states’ governments must roll up their sleeves and implement necessary structural reforms. structural, fiscal and monetary policies each have to play their role for a consistent, growth-friendly approach acting both on the demand and supply sides of our economies. on the fiscal side, adjustments undertaken in recent years have reduced deficits and stabilised debt levels in the euro area. but member states continue to face different fiscal challenges which call for a differentiated path of fiscal adjustment going forward. the commission agrees with the european parliament that fiscal adjustment, using the flexibility that is built into the rules of the stability and growth pact, needs to go hand in hand with the implementation of structural reforms: reforms of product, services and labour markets that increase productivity, help regain competitiveness, improve the business environment and reduce inequality. stimulating investment remains one of the commission’s policy priorities. the investment plan for europe will help to reverse recent downward trends in investment by supporting strategic projects and sme financing. european parliament support for a european fund for strategic investments initiative has been instrumental in laying the ground for decisive and swift union action to address the main investment needs in europe. with all the governance bodies in place since early january, efsi is now up and running. the take-up so far by the market and public authorities leaves us assured that we will meet the eur 315 billion investment target well within the three—year deadline. the commission also shares parliament’s view on the capital markets union. it is our common objective to support diversification of funding sources, promote cross-border investments and improve access to finance smes in particular. implementing the capital markets union action plan is an ambitious objective. the commission therefore counts on parliament’s strong support and commitment, in particular – but not only – for the upcoming legislative procedures. at the same time we agree with parliament that we must remain vigilant with regard to risks in all areas of the financial system arising in the current market situation. let me conclude by underlining that i see much common ground between your views and the commission’s. it is reassuring to know that we can count on your support in building the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation in europe. i thank you for your attention and look forward to a good and fruitful debate today.
for the ppe group the preparation of this parliamentary report has not been easy. the heated discussions showed that your monetary policy is a hot topic. super mario, magic mario, helicopter mario, you seem to be getting a new nickname every week. but i can imagine that you would prefer not to be given that attention, that you would prefer a stable european economy, one that does not need unconventional measures. i hope that you will also choose a ecb that is trusted to carry out its mandate with complete independence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because trust is still the main lubricant of the economy and the central bank deserves this trust, together with the governors of the national banks. of course, a debate on the policy pursued remains very important. there are clear arguments for and against quantitative enlargement, but the debate must remain intellectually honest. to cry that the poor saver is the loser, for example, while reckless investors and debt collectors are celebrating, is to violate the truth. of course, no one is just a saver. for example, many of my peers today enjoy the very low interest rates that mortgage borrowers enjoy. employee, employer, pensioner, we all have an interest in the economy moving faster. we must remain vigilant about the risks of this policy - i am the first to say it today - but we must not allow it to paralyse us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that is why i support the balanced view of this parliamentary report.
for the enf group as if seven years of the euro crisis were not enough, socialists, christian democrats and liberals here have hijacked the report of our good colleague mr marias in order to give mr draghi a nuanced good report so that he can continue as he has always done. mr marias has indeed been sidelined, despite what he himself says. a cautious - and i think far too cautious - paragraph which criticised the possibility that the ecb may have exceeded its mandate when it started buying up sovereign debt. it was all going to die. his report was hijacked and we now have an annual report that reaffirms the euroreligion with mr draghi's classic dogma: everything's going well, because if i can't go on, it'll be worse. so according to that dogma, the way is now clear for mr draghi to continue with his debt economy, his unemployment economy, his unitary economy and the transfer union that goes with it. and all this with a fountain of money that keeps on gushing, although it does not cause growth and does not bring any income. this is not possible either, because there is no confidence in the fundamental survival of this currency. mr draghi seems to be a gold-digging fraudster who is leading us all down the abyss, towards a chaotic implosion, when it would be wiser to deconstruct this monetary union in an orderly way. stopping mr draghi here today would probably be a much more interesting and sensible measure!
mr draghi, you are indeed independent, but you must also be accountable for your policies. the economist geert noels, for example, asked you seven questions at the end of last year. it was your chief economist, peter praet, who was kind enough to answer it. what were his answers? one and a half billion euros! that's how much money you've printed in the meantime. inflation has not kept pace. economic growth is also slowing. but, says mr praet, we are just going on. we just keep pumping money into the system without limit. mr draghi, you are blowing bubbles in our economy. your policies are an assault on our savings and our pensions. i would recommend that you look a little further and listen to william white, the economist who did predict and saw the financial and economic crisis coming. what's he saying? monetary policy becomes less effective over time and those harmful side effects become more and more evident. i think it's time for all of us to take a good look at this.
mr president, commissioner, i am surprised at your speech. you say: this resolution confirms my mandate to be able to continue negotiating in the way i am negotiating today. the resolution calls for a change of direction and, above all, for the commission to respect a number of blue and red lines. do we have to call back those red lines? the explicit exclusion of public services, no liberalization by default and without return, protection of workers, no social dumping, data protection as a fundamental right. all of this is included in the resolution and therefore not in your negotiations at the moment. therefore, to continue your negotiations in the way you are conducting them today is to risk having a coherent majority in this parliament that will say no to the agreement on trade in services. i ask all members who vote for this resolution to be consistent, that is to say that if you do not respect it, they will have to commit themselves to voting against this agreement.
in writing. i would like to welcome the compromise reached by the rapporteur, mrs viviane reding, in particular the rejection of the 'status quo' and 'clique effect' clauses and even the safeguards proposed by foreign companies in the field of data protection. however, i shall abstain from voting. some of the red lines are missing. public services and services to the general public are excluded from the scope of the negotiations, but there is still a lack of clarity on their definition at european level, which undermines the restriction. let us be cautious about this type of negotiation and its impact. to date, there is no guarantee that tisa will enforce compliance with the collective agreements of the international labour organisation (ilo). i am also against the 'negative list' principle introduced by tisa: only those sectors explicitly mentioned in the agreements will not be liberalized. parliament gave its 'green light'; i saw an orange fire. i will continue to ensure that the essential elements of the agreement are respected.
mr president, as my colleagues have said, we are against automaticity in the granting of market economy status to china, simply because it is not a market economy. i think we should say so, even if some people say that this is not the case. no, china is not a market economy. secondly, we want effective anti-dumping tools in the face of unfair competition. what we also want to emphasize is that the solution that must be found must not be a sectoral solution. the steel industry is certainly the subject of much discussion, but it is not the only industry affected by china's aggressive approach. we also do not want an approach which is linked to the specific or particular interests of certain member states. we want effective tools, not protectionism, as some have said, but simply protection against the unfair and aggressive practices that are now china's
in writing. our delegation is not convinced today that china should be granted effective market economy status. we note that despite encouraging reforms, china still has many state-owned enterprises which, thanks to free capital and subsidies, are hindering fair competition. the commission therefore concluded that the chinese domestic prices were not representative of the prices of the union industry. there is therefore a danger for the european (manufacturing) sectors concerned if they cannot compete on a level playing field, with the potential consequence of a heavy loss of jobs and prosperity. we also realise, however, that many of our european companies have a strong interest in being granted market status and do not benefit from a very troubled relationship with china. the n-va delegation therefore considers it an absolute requirement that the commission should undertake a thorough legal analysis of china's accession protocol to the who as soon as possible and carry out a thorough economic impact study that thoroughly maps the granting of market status, so that this dossier can be followed up with full knowledge of the facts.
madam president, i have three questions. the first question has already been raised by mr david martin: it concerns the reference to the cotonou agreement. this reference in the agreement with west africa says, "we will refer to relevant provisions of cotonou". i think that the reference to relevant provisions introduces a particular legal interpretation. moreover, when the cotonou agreement expires, what will be the legal basis for implementing the provisions on dialogue and sanctions? the second question is about the benefit to african countries. among the countries of west africa, 12 out of 16 are ldcs, i.e. not affected by epas, and only 3 countries are gsp countries. in january 2012, the south centre calculated the difference between the epa and the gsp, and this study concludes that for most west african countries, the tax losses are greater than the gains. so why is there interest in these african countries? the third question concerns the situation and position of nigeria, which is currently in a very hostile situation. we understand his position, because he has a fall in his gdp and a fall of 7 billion in his budgetary revenue. what is your response to nigeria?
investing in nature and biodiversity must be at the heart of a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe. in fact, in addition to the overwhelming intrinsic value of nature, biodiversity offers invaluable socioeconomic benefits. one in six jobs in the european union depends on nature. the added value of natura 2000, the european network of high-quality nature, is many times greater than the cost of management and the lack of a biodiversity strategy will cost us 50 billion euros a year. the loss of biodiversity is therefore rightly considered one of the greatest global threats, and it is. however, we are seriously lagging behind in the implementation of the european biodiversity strategy and are today far from halfway towards the 2020 targets. despite some hopeful signs that focused efforts are indeed producing success stories and that the objectives are achievable, the overall picture remains very bleak. only 23% of species and 16% of habitats are in good condition. without significant additional efforts, we cannot avoid a scenario like 2010 and miss the 2020 appointment again. the central message of my report is therefore that there is an urgent need for more political will to turn the tide and to do so at all policy levels. better implementation, stricter enforcement and further integration of biodiversity into other policy areas are essential. moreover, all stakeholders must be involved in this story, right down to the individual citizen. colleagues, the birds and habitats directives are a crucial link in this story. my position on the ongoing fitness check of the nature guidelines is crystal clear. the guidelines should not be revised. on the contrary, they must be fully implemented. a review of this would put the biodiversity strategy itself on the back foot, would bring about a long period of legal uncertainty and would potentially weaken these milestones of european nature policy. moreover, i am convinced that a revision would not provide a solution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. i'm not alone in my opinion. the committee on the environment has already supported my report almost unanimously. and i am confident that the plenary of this parliament will also send a clear signal to the european commission tomorrow. moreover, over half a million european citizens have spoken out against a revision of the nature directives through the nature alert campaign. the ministers also expressed their explicit support for the nature directives at the environment council on 16 december, stressing in particular the importance of better implementation. finally, the initial findings of the fitness check confirm that nature guidelines are effective, efficient and relevant when properly implemented. i'd like to illustrate that point. commissioner, mr vella, last friday i visited the port area of antwerp with you. we have seen in practice how nature and economic development can go hand in hand thanks to a network of key areas, of green corridors, reconciling the interests of europe's second largest port with the protection of vulnerable fauna and flora in and around the port and the scheldt. the area-based and proactive antwerp approach confirms that there is absolutely no need to revise the nature directives, but that we must make a full effort to facilitate the implementation process. the commission should play a crucial role in this respect, in particular by proposing improved guidelines that incorporate best practice and by ensuring that these guidelines are also fully recognised and fully respected. and i call on the commission to listen to all these signals and, above all, to put an end to the uncertainty about the fitness check. we cannot afford to lose any more time, if we are to make it to the 2020 meeting, we must do everything we can to fully implement the nature guidelines. i also expect the commission to make efforts to take additional measures, to find additional innovative solutions to halt the loss of biodiversity in europe, such as the practical implementation of a trans-european network of green infrastructure, initiatives to prevent the loss of biodiversity outside protected areas and actions to protect pollinators. ladies and gentlemen, the loss of biodiversity means loss for nature, for people, for the economy. in the interest of the health, welfare and prosperity of future generations, i count on your support to preserve nature. i can only express my sincere thanks to my colleagues, my shadow rapporteurs, for their very constructive cooperation. it's been a privilege and an honor to work with you.
i think that this report has gone a good way and i would like to emphasize that. black-collar work is a major social problem and damages the economy because competition is not fair. all member states should therefore cooperate closely to tackle undeclared work effectively and efficiently. it is therefore a very good idea to set up a european platform to enable the efficient and rapid exchange of data and information. it is logical and necessary that the european union should play a role in this. i would also point out that the rapporteur has taken care that the union respects the competences of the member states and does not go beyond its supporting role. each member state should have the room to develop a tailor-made approach to the different problems it faces. since the report takes this into account, i can fully support it.
madam president, undeclared work is a crucial issue, particularly because of its place in the underground economy. while the fight against this form of work is a prerogative of the member states, it is essential to establish synergies at european level. i shall be voting with unconcealed enthusiasm for the creation of this platform. the negative consequences of undeclared work are many, too many for the budgets of the states, for the equilibrium of the social security systems, for companies because it creates unfair competition, for employees who lose their rights in terms of pensions, unemployment, access to health care, protection against accidents at work. indeed, an industrial accident is a disaster for the worker, who is not protected, and also an economic disaster for the company, especially if it is a sme, which may be forced to close its doors. i would like to stress the importance of the role of the social partners in this platform. it will also have to tackle the letterbox companies and the fake selfemployed, which we must combat if we are to combat social dumping in europe. this platform is a first step, but this process will have to be continued through the establishment of a social inspection service in the member states to allow the exchange of information. i am convinced that the european area must become an area of combating social dumping and an area of social justice.
unfair competition undermines citizens' confidence in the european project. i believe that by creating this platform, europe is taking an important additional step in the fight against undeclared work, false selfemployment and other forms of fraud. it is the job of the public authorities to monitor the rules of the game, but in a single market fraud does not stop at national borders. that is why i think it is good that europe should also take responsibility in this respect. responsibility towards workers who are denied their social rights through black-collar work and fraud. moreover, malpractice is most common in dangerous occupations and among vulnerable groups such as low-skilled women or migrants. but it also means responsibility towards the member states whose revenue is lost through fraud and whose social security is thus under pressure. the free movement of persons within the eu is our greatest achievement and we must not let this be undermined by unfair practices. cooperation is therefore the key word. i therefore urge that this important battle not be reduced to conflicts between eastern and western european member states, for example. everybody needs to be in the tub. this is essential to ensure proper cooperation between all the inspection services of our member states. in particular, i would like to stress the need for further and urgent digitisation of data exchange such as the internal market information system and the eessi system. this platform is certainly a step in the right direction, i am convinced. we can and must go much further. i therefore look forward, together with you, to the proposals on the labour mobility package from our commissioner thyssen.
i should like to make a few comments on the report by mr glinne. the commission's communication is really not good. i hear too much talk about higher taxes and not enough talk about lower taxes and more efficient businesses. corporations are not dairy cows. they're the ones who create jobs, they're the ones who create prosperity, and you're the ones who do the justice. we need to make sure that everyone pays their taxes fairly, including multinationals. that they cannot evade those taxes. and we do that by sharing information, by working together across tax administrations, by choosing to be more transparent. but also by being vigilant. and i hold it . we will remain vigilant on three points: the first. the smaller member states must also remain competitive and taxation must be reduced. that is why we need that healthy fiscal competition between member states. it would therefore be a bad idea to harmonize taxes at european level; the second. we cannot be blind to this international context. if the commission wants to impose more obligations, obligations which go beyond what has been agreed internationally, then we are first and foremost shooting ourselves in the foot. the third. we hope that the commission will keep its word and that in any event no additional burden will be placed on the shoulders of small and mediumsized enterprises. that is what is in the commission's texts. we also expect that this will be made permanent, because that is the only way to ensure that we pay less tax and that everyone pays his taxes fairly.
mr president, commissioner, following the swissleaks and luxleaks cases and the setting up of a special committee in the european parliament, you have presented several tax packages in an attempt to curb tax evasion by multinationals. let us not be afraid of words, i think you are one of the commissioners who is most ambitious in putting europe back in order, through fairer and more solidary taxation. of course, not everything is perfect, but all your actions are in the right direction - this is important to emphasize - and i encourage you to go even further in this issue. some of your proposals follow the recommendations of our special committee, others are more conservative. in our final report we proposed the introduction of an automatic and comprehensive exchange of information on tax returns between member states. last year one of your proposals took up this measure, but bypassed certain recommendations, which is regrettable. i am thinking of course of publicity for these exchanges, but you have come to tell us that you want to go on and move forward, and i am glad of that. this new package of proposals is obviously a further step in the right direction to combat tax evasion and avoidance. i am thinking in particular of two other measures in the report of the taxe committee, namely the automatic exchange of information in the context of the publication of country-by-country information and the chapter on the consolidated tax base. however, unfortunately, in my view, there are some crucial elements missing to prevent multinationals from organising the parade. i am thinking in particular of the clear definition of the profit zones of multinational companies, which would oblige them to pay their taxes in the countries where they carry out economic activity and not in a tax haven. we know that google is a champion of this kind of practice, but it is not the only one, and we all know that a multinational company that does not pay taxes in the country where it carries out economic activity is obviously undermining the social model of our societies, namely funding for the benefit of all in health, social security, education, employment and security. finally, commissioner, we regret that the tax package you have just presented is not aimed at harmonising corporation tax within the european union. this is a difficult measure to implement, but it would allow for fairer and healthier competition. it is clear that there is still a long way to go in the field of tax evasion. i hope that parliament will follow you and go even further, as i have heard many echoes of this.
mr president, commissioner, you come to us from france, which is less and less the land of human rights, it must be admitted, but still the land of romance and love, and that is what we must give you back. in france, people do not rush to decide what they want. they know the importance of foreplay. the problem, of course, is that in tax justice, after swissleaks, after offshoreleaks, after luxleaks, the foreplay is endless. but at some point, you have to take action, at the risk of seeing the object of your desire go away, disappointed. what does 'taking action' mean in this case? that would mean, as you yourself have said, that companies would be required to publish financial information country by country, publicly. you said you were in favour of it and i believe you. so multinational companies must not only report how much profit they make, how much tax they pay, under what name they operate, how many people they employ, what tax arrangements they benefit from in all countries, but this information must be available to all our fellow citizens. we must apply the oecd recommendations fully. i notice that in the package you are proposing, which this time deserves to be called a package, you are forgetting certain things: the obligation, for example, to have anti-abuse clauses in all bilateral treaties is, in your package, only a recommendation and not an obligation. i also see that the rules on foreign-controlled enterprises are not fully incorporated either. we have to go further because the oecd has not dealt with everything. i take the example of this new means of tax evasion called "patent boxes", which the oecd completely ignores. i think it's up to you to fill in those blanks. i would remind you that the oecd is an organisation which makes recommendations, whereas you are the initiator of legislation. finally, we must impose a common and consolidated corporate tax base, that is to say, agree on what the profit is and distribute that profit on an objective basis between the member states, applying, of course, a minimum rate. all of this, you mentioned it more or less directly in your speech. you tell us you want to consummate the act, and i believe you. but then, go ahead, don't hold back! it's really time to go! of course, the question we can all ask ourselves is whether the member states are, like pierre moscovici, in love with tax justice... i have reason to doubt that, judging by the reaction of the grand duchy of luxembourg, the netherlands and my own country to the recent decisions of your colleague, mrs vestager. i hope that this institution, together with the commission, will be able to arouse a burning desire on the part of the member states to put an end to the scandal of this tax war, which, i would remind you, is primarily aimed at small taxpayers, whether they are individuals or smes.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, mr maurel, since you have asked me to speak, i would like my words to be understood in the right way. when i say foreplay is important, it's because foreplay has substance. it's not just the act that has substance. i do not therefore deny that the preliminary examinations which the commission has undertaken in recent months have substance. i'm just saying that at some point, you have to consummate the act...
in writing. ‒ this is a codification for clarity of the 2006 regulation establishing the schengen borders code which has been amended many times since its adoption. although the text is of major importance (regime for crossing external borders), the new proposed regulation would replace the various acts incorporated in it while preserving their substance in full. i approved this coding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the codification of the regulation establishing a community code on the rules governing the crossing of frontiers by persons (schengen borders code). in view of the many amendments made to the code, it seems to me justified, in the interests of clarity and transparency of the law, to proceed with this codification. the opinion delivered by the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission confirms that the proposal is indeed a mere codification of existing texts without any change in substance.
in writing. as the proposal for a regulation of the ep and the council on a union code on the rules governing the crossing of frontiers by persons is limited to a pure and simple codification of existing texts, without changing their substance, and taking into account the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on the accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts, i have agreed that this position be adopted at first reading.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report today. in view of the interinstitutional agreement of 20 december 1994 on an accelerated working method for the official codification of legislative texts and considering that, in the opinion of the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of existing texts without any change in their substance, the assembly adopted the commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ since, in the opinion of the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance, parliament could only vote on the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. in europe, we have failed to provide a collective response to the refugee crisis. we have discussed possible solutions time and again, but almost never have we reached a common action by the european union. even in cases where we do reach a common position, we are not able to bring this to a successful conclusion. however, it is clear that the refugee crisis cannot be solved by one member state alone. this is a european crisis and so there must be a european response. closing the internal borders of the schengen area cannot be a solution, but guarding our common external borders can. i therefore call for a common european border and coast guard guard guarding our external borders on the one hand and a european set of migration rules that apply to the whole of the union on the other.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983. it has since been extended by eight protocols specifically identifying measures to be taken by the parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants, including the aarhus protocol which in 1998 aimed to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of lead, mercury and cadmium. i have approved this decision which aims to accept the amendments to that protocol in order to establish a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution calling on the council to accept, on behalf of the european union, the 1998 amendment to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution protocol on heavy metals. the aim of the protocol is to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions of heavy metals into the atmosphere, across borders and over long distances. it requires the parties to reduce their total annual emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury compared with the levels of these emissions in 1990 (or any other year between 1985 and 1995). the proposed amendment to the protocol aims to establish stricter emission limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources as well as adaptive transitional provisions that will benefit future parties that accede to the protocol as amended between 1 january 2014 and 31 december 2019. this amendment should be transposed, in particular, by means of a directive setting new national emission ceilings for certain air pollutants and providing for an annual national emission inventory covering, inter alia, emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury.
in writing. the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution by heavy metals aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. such pollution may be characterized by the emission of heavy metals such as lead (pb), cadmium (cd) and mercury (hg) into the atmosphere. the aim of the protocol is therefore to reduce industrial emissions from the combustion and incineration of waste. but in view of the environmental problems these heavy metals can cause, it is appropriate (as the amendments emphasize) to reduce the mercury content of alkaline batteries and measuring devices and to keep an updated national inventory of pb, cd and hg emissions. the ratification of the amendments is an essential step towards a high level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ in europe, air pollution is responsible for almost half a million premature deaths each year: parliament has therefore rightly updated its legislation on long-range transboundary air pollution, which is enshrined in a convention of the same name. this is particularly important to reduce and control emissions of heavy metals, which are a hazard in case of large or prolonged exposure, which can cause diseases and accelerated ageing. heavy metals are naturally present in our environment and used industrially, are released into the air as very fine particles and eventually fall back to the ground, contaminating the animals and plants we eat and eventually accumulating in our tissues. cadmium, found in pesticides and tv screens, and responsible for thousands of kidney cancers. lead, which is emitted by the metal industry and causes psychological disturbances, including saturnism. mercury, which is also produced in the production of electricity and is used in dental fillings, is considered by the who to be one of the ten chemicals of greatest concern to public health.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. several studies conducted between 1972 and 1977 have shown that air pollutants can be transported thousands of kilometres before being precipitated. the problems of air pollution must therefore be tackled at international level. the convention established the framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution. to date, the convention has been extended by eight protocols specifically identifying measures to be taken by the parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants. in december 2012, the protocol was amended by decisions 2012/5, 2012/6 and 2012/7. decision 2012/5 still needed to be ratified by the parties, as the amended protocol in particular sets stricter emission limit values for dust emissions from certain large fixed sources as well as flexible transitional provisions that will benefit future parties that will accede to the amended protocol before the end of 2019, including the countries of eastern and south-eastern europe. parliament approved this recommendation today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text and its amendments. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. several studies conducted between 1972 and 1977 have shown that air pollutants can be transported thousands of kilometres before being precipitated. the problems of air pollution must therefore be tackled at international level. the convention, which was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, was the first international legally binding instrument in this field. it has established the framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution. it provides that the executive secretary of the united nations economic commission for europe shall provide its secretariat. the convention is implemented and monitored through the concerted programme for the monitoring and evaluation of the long-range transport of air pollutants in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amending the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, on heavy metals. this amendment is important in order to better protect the environment and public health in the event of transboundary air pollution. this amendment provides for stricter limit values and therefore stricter rules than before.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983. it has since been extended by eight protocols specifically identifying measures to be taken by the parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants, including the 1998 aarhus protocol on persistent organic pollutants. its objective was to combat the discharges, emissions and leakage of these organic pollutants. i have approved this decision which aims to accept the amendments to that protocol in order to establish a higher level of protection of human health and the environment against transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution calling on the council to accept, on behalf of the european union, the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants. adopted in 1981, this convention is the main international legal framework governing cooperation and measures to limit and progressively reduce air pollution and to avoid its harmful effects on human health and the environment in the unece region. the text of the proposed amendments to the 1998 protocol includes new substances, an update of the proposed regime for certain emissions and the limit values (levs) for dioxins/furans (pcdd/fs) emissions from certain waste incinerators, the establishment of new limit values for pcdd/fs emissions from agglomeration workshops and electric arc furnaces, and the addition of pcbs to the list of substances whose annual emissions must remain below the level of the reference year and be reported. i support and welcome this news to better protect human health and the environment.
air pollution does not stop at the border. often, this pollution travels many miles before it hits far away. it is therefore necessary to address the problems caused by air pollution internationally and across borders. in 1983 a convention with a legally binding instrument to limit the environmental and health effects of transboundary air pollution entered into force for the first time. in recent years, a number of protocols have been added to the existing convention to allow a more efficient approach to environmental problems. the latest amendment adds a series of harmful substances to which the implementing rules, emission limit values and reporting obligations will apply. i hope that by ratifying these amendments we will take another step towards better protection of air quality and public health against transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ on tuesday, the european parliament approved a tightening of its air quality legislation. more specifically, it is an amendment to the geneva convention on long-range transboundary air pollution which strengthens the fight against persistent organic pollutants such as aldrin, chlordane, heptachlore, mirex and toxaphene. under these barbaric titles are the infamous "pops", dangerous chemical compounds that have in common toxicity, persistence in the environment, long-distance transport and bio-amplification, i.e. the fact that the concentration increases in the food chain. they are found in pesticides, in pcbs added to paints and plastics, and in the combustion of wood and household waste, especially in the form of dioxins. the legislative amendment aims to add seven new substances to the list limiting the use of persistent organic pollutants and to update some existing schemes. i welcome this adjustment, especially since at the same time a similar vote was on the restriction of heavy metals.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. several studies conducted between 1972 and 1977 have shown that air pollutants can be transported thousands of kilometres before being precipitated. the problems of air pollution must therefore be tackled at international level. the convention, which was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, was the first international legally binding instrument in this field. to date, the convention has been extended by eight protocols specifically identifying measures to be taken by the parties to reduce their emissions of air pollutants. the first protocol under the convention was signed in 1984 and contained a financing plan for activities carried out under emep (the concerted programme for the monitoring and evaluation of the long-range transport of air pollutants in europe). in december 2009, the protocol was amended by decisions 2009/1 and 2009/2 which were still to be ratified by the parties. the draft council decision incorporates in its annexes the text of the amendments to the protocol made by decisions 2009/1 and 2009/2. parliament approved it today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text and its amendments. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. several studies conducted between 1972 and 1977 have shown that air pollutants can be transported thousands of kilometres before being precipitated. the problems of air pollution must therefore be tackled at international level. the convention, which was signed in 1979 and entered into force in 1983, was the first international legally binding instrument in this field. it has established the framework for controlling and reducing the damage to human health and the environment caused by transboundary air pollution. it provides that the executive secretary of the united nations economic commission for europe shall provide its secretariat. the convention is implemented and monitored through the concerted programme for the monitoring and evaluation of the long-range transport of air pollutants in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution concerning persistent organic pollutants. the adoption of these amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment. that is why i supported these amendments.
in writing. ‒ parliament is here consulted by the council on the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption. the agreement includes detailed provisions on operational cooperation between the partners, such as the secondment of a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information. i have approved the positive opinion proposed by the rapporteur because the cooperation agreement is intended to make it possible to intensify judicial cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to strengthen judicial cooperation between eurojust and ukraine. the fight against serious forms of crime, particularly organised crime and terrorism, needs to be intensified. i am particularly in favour of the secondment of a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust and the increased exchange of information, including personal data.
in writing. in the face of organised crime, terrorism, trafficking and corruption, it is essential that the union place its action in an international context with particular attention to its neighbouring countries. by adopting the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine, the union is strengthening its judicial mechanism. the new liaison officer at eurojust will make it possible to streamline the exchange of information and thus the effectiveness of our cooperation. the common objective is to end impunity and to strengthen the security of the european territory. i therefore encourage the union and eurojust to increase the number of such agreements with other third countries.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today supported the kaufmann report on the cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine. in the aftermath of the paris attacks, the eu pointed to the lack of judicial cooperation between states. the murder of pro-russian journalist oles buzyna in kiev in april 2015 is helping to reinforce ukraine's unfavorable image in terms of crime. according to the united nations office on drugs and crime, 1,390 homicides were committed in the country in 2015, while belgium had 125. the latest report from the organized crime observatory found that drug trafficking and human trafficking remain common. new challenges such as the increase in counterfeiting and cybercrime are becoming international and directly affecting the eu. crime in all its forms is an attack on the fundamental principles on which the union is founded. there is an urgent need to strengthen judicial cooperation between states, which is essential to improve the fight against crime and terrorism which plague our society today.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was on the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption. the agreement includes detailed provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information. in accordance with article 26a (2) of the eurojust decision, it is for the council to approve agreements concluded by eurojust with third countries or international organisations. in accordance with article 39 (1) of the former treaty on european union, the european parliament must also be consulted on this approval. i voted in favour of this text because it seems to me obvious that eurojust's operational cooperation with ukraine is necessary in order to combat transnational crime and to strengthen judicial cooperation in europe.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the proposal under consideration concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement includes provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the secondment of a liaison officer from ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because better cooperation between eurojust and ukraine will lead to a more efficient fight against crossborder crime, terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ parliament is here consulted by the council on the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption. the agreement includes detailed provisions on operational cooperation between the partners, including the exchange of information. i have approved the positive opinion proposed by the rapporteur because the cooperation agreement is intended to make it possible to intensify judicial cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to strengthen cooperation between eurojust and montenegro in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, including the secondment of a liaison prosecutor from montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data.
in writing. parliament was consulted on the future operational cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro. i welcome the positive signal sent by parliament to conclude this agreement. in the current climate of the fight against terrorism, trafficking and organised crime, it is imperative to take account of the transnational nature of these scourges and to strengthen judicial cooperation. it must be effective between member states on the one hand and between member states and third countries on the other. with crime increasingly taking place across borders, judicial cooperation is a necessity if we are to be able to effectively prosecute those involved and avoid the impunity they still too often enjoy because of the lack of crossborder cooperation.
in writing. ‒ today's vote was on the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, including the secondment of a liaison prosecutor from montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data. in order to strengthen the fight against international crime and judicial cooperation in europe, it seems to me clearly essential from an operational point of view that eurojust should start cooperating with montenegro. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it will support and strengthen the fight against serious forms of crime and will help to improve judicial cooperation, particularly in the area of organised crime and terrorism, between the european union and montenegro.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text and its amendments. the proposal under consideration concerns the approval of a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro with a view to strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious forms of crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism. the draft agreement contains provisions on operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, including the secondment of a liaison prosecutor from montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because better cooperation between eurojust and montenegro will lead to a more efficient fight against crossborder crime, terrorism and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ following the unanimous vote of the parliament's committee on legal affairs, i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of mr iwaszkiewicz's parliamentary immunity.
in writing. i voted for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr robert jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz, because speeding in an agglomeration cannot be justified as an act committed in the context of parliamentary duties. parliamentary immunity goes hand in hand with the freedom and independence of the legislature. parliamentary immunity is a functional immunity which is intended primarily to protect women or politicians from any pressure, from whatever source, to ensure the independence of their vote. the act committed by mr jaroslaw iwaszkiewicz does not fit into this picture.
in writing. i supported the waiver of mr. iwaszkiewicz's immunity. immunity is not to protect you from being punished for traffic violations, but to protect you from being punished for expressing political opinions. the case of mr iwaszkiewicz is clear in this respect, and my position is also clear.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz's immunity, so that polish justice can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged facts non-compliance with the speed limit in urban areas clearly have no connection with the office of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz as a member of parliament and are not motivated by the desire to harm the political action of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of lifting the immunity of this member so that he can have the freedom to defend himself before the courts of his country.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of parliamentary immunity so that people can defend themselves before national courts.
in writing. ‒ following the unanimous vote of the parliament's committee on legal affairs, i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of mr iwaszkiewicz's parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz's immunity, so that polish justice can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged facts non-compliance with the speed limit in urban areas clearly have no connection with the office of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz as a member of parliament, and are not motivated by the desire to harm the political action of the member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of lifting the immunity of this member so that he can have the freedom to defend himself before the courts of his country.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of parliamentary immunity so that people can defend themselves before national courts.
in writing. ‒ following the unanimous vote of the parliament's committee on legal affairs, i voted in favour of rejecting mr philippot's request for waiver of parliamentary immunity.
in writing. freedom of expression is one of the foundations of any democratic society. it is guaranteed, in particular by the european convention on human rights, and it is a sign of the maturity of a democracy. mr. philippot has the right to express his feelings, his opinions. as a strong supporter of freedom of expression, i can only oppose the request for waiver of parliamentary immunity i would also point out that under article 26 of the french constitution, 'no member of parliament may be prosecuted, sought, arrested or tried for opinions or votes he expresses in the exercise of his functions'.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the waiver of mr phillipot's immunity, in accordance with the unanimous proposal of the committee responsible. immunity is meant to protect against possible punishment for political expression. if mr philippot has been accused in france by qatar of publicly stating that this arab country is financing terrorism, he is entitled to such a political opinion, whether we agree with him on this point or not. rarely do we encounter a case in immunity issues that is so clear in this regard, and my position is consistent with that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr florian philippot's immunity, so that the french judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, considering that the alleged facts florian philippot is accused by the government of qatar of having defamed the state in a radio and television broadcast, during which he suggested that qatar would finance terrorism have no connection with the function of mr philippot as a member of parliament, and are not motivated by the desire to harm the political action of the member of parliament.
in writing. ‒ it is normal to vote for the lifting of the immunity of a member of parliament so that he can explain himself before the courts of his country. however, in this particular case, we, the members of the european parliament, are forced to participate in a charade whose only aim is to give a little more publicity not only to the fn in its sensationalist outings, but also to qatar, which needs to restore its image: a circus in which the european parliament and the french judiciary must be the actors in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of parliamentary immunity so that people can defend themselves before national courts.
in writing. ‒ undeclared employment not only causes financial damage to public budgets and social systems, but also often leads to highly questionable employment relationships for workers. i therefore welcome the launch today by the european parliament of an eu-wide platform to combat the shadow economy, which will network national authorities such as tax offices, employment agencies and social partners to better exchange information and successful measures to combat the shadow economy. this is the right next step, but to effectively combat the shadow economy, more than this platform is needed. eu member states must adopt laws or initiatives at national level that make black entrepreneurship unattractive. belgium, for example, has had good experience with the introduction of so-called service checks.
in writing. ‒ the primary objective of the platform is to add value at union level to the efforts of member states and union institutions to effectively tackle the complex problem of undeclared work and to address its multiple implications and consequences, including by encouraging and promoting undeclared work through appropriate policies. these policies are all the more necessary in the light of the recent findings of the eurofound study, which highlight a strong correlation between the size and growth of the underground economy and austerity policies, which result in draconian budget cuts, increased deregulation and a significant reduction in the role of the state. the urgency of the measures to be taken cannot be underestimated in view of the multiple and very negative consequences of undeclared work: severe exploitation situations, precarious living and working conditions for millions of workers across the union, clear unfair competition that severely disrupts the single market and heavy losses for member states' budgets and social security systems.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because undeclared work can lay a heavy burden on tax incomes and social security revenues. it creates unfair competition between those that abide by the rules and those that do not. i believe that for a free and single european market to function we need to ensure that workers have an adequate level of protection wherever they are employed. a european platform can be a good instrument for this problem since undeclared work has become a cross-border problem with undeclared workers moving back and forth between member states, ultimately even undermining the fundamental right of free movement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution establishing a 'european platform' to strengthen cooperation between the ministries of labour, trade unions and employers' associations of the member states to combat undeclared work. at present, undeclared work accounts for an average of 18% of eu gdp. for workers, undeclared work too often means dangerous working conditions and low wages, which fosters social dumping, particularly in crossborder work. the purpose of this platform should thus be, firstly, to prevent, discourage and combat undeclared work, but also to promote the transformation of such activities into declared work, and, secondly, to encourage practical, effective and efficient cross-border actions, and to develop a reliable and effective system for the rapid exchange of information between national bodies. this should not, however, interfere with member states' own measures or seek to harmonise the regulatory systems of the different eu countries.
in writing. undeclared work can be defined as paid activities of a legal nature but not declared to the public authorities. it is still a scourge for european economies. the underground economy in the union is very present and can reach up to 18% of the union's gdp. in view of the unfair competition it generates, it seems to me essential to point out the harmful consequences which can be summed up in losses of jobs, productivity and income for the states. it also hinders the respect of standards for working conditions and i see that women are often the most affected by undeclared work. which further widened the gender gap. the creation of a platform to combat undeclared work is a first step in the right direction. the cooperation between member states must be strengthened and reliable and up-to-date information must be provided. this cooperation would contribute to a level playing field and would benefit economic operators.
in writing. ‒ undeclared work is a crucial issue. this is crucial because we are talking about an underground economy which represents 18% of european gdp. while the fight against this form of work remains a prerogative of the member states, it is essential to establish synergies at european level. it was with great enthusiasm that i voted in favour of the creation of a platform to help fight undeclared work. this platform will also have to tackle the letterbox companies and the fake self-employed, which we must actively combat to counter social dumping in europe. she's a first step. the next step will be to set up a genuine social europol, which will bring together the social inspection services of the member states to exchange information.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament voted to set up a european platform for better cooperation in preventing and combating undeclared work. black-collar work is a widespread phenomenon in europe and leads to the exploitation of workers and undermines the economy. it deprives national governments of revenue. it is estimated that this represents 18% of economic activity. it was therefore time for eu member states to work together to provide a coherent response to the problem. the platform shall serve to exchange information and good practices between national authorities working in the fields of employment, taxation and migration, as well as with the social partners. the importance of labour inspection services and financial support is emphasised. the term black-collar work also covers the creation of a false sense of independence. the link with the eu employment objectives and the european semester was also established. since black-marketing knows no borders, european cooperation is very important. the platform must not become a chat-club, but must also propose concrete actions. at the insistence of the greens, there will be a specific focus on domestic work and women, who are particularly disadvantaged by working "in the dark". it is clear that this is an important subject and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the european parliament is called upon, at the beginning of its eighth parliamentary term, to address one of the most complex and worrying problems of all: undeclared work. the complexity of the problem lies in its very nature: it is a question of paid activities of a legal nature, which are not, however, declared to the public authorities or, in the case of sham self-employment, are misreported. i would like to stress that this is a european problem and not just a greek one, as some in our institutions seem to believe.
in writing. ‒ black-collar work in europe is a problem because workers are less protected than in the legal circuit. that is why i voted in favour of the creation of a european platform for intensifying cooperation in preventing and combating undeclared work. member states should cooperate fully in this platform and thus share best practices and information with each other, especially when it concerns information on companies operating simultaneously in several member states.
in writing. ‒ the mid-term report of the biodiversity programme shows that if the eu does not redouble its efforts, it will also miss its 2020 deadline. the figures speak for themselves: the ecological footprint of the 28 is twice as large as the union's biocapacity. only 23% of species and 16% of habitats can be considered in good condition. it should be noted, however, that scientific evidence has shown that nature in europe would be in a much worse state without the positive impacts of the eu's birds and habitats directives. however, implementation of these directives by the member states is often too slow. that is why i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission and the member states to give priority to action to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy as a matter of urgency. the rapporteur calls for a multilateral approach and stresses the essential role of national, regional and local actors. it also stresses that increased funding and public awareness of, and support for, biodiversity protection are also essential.
in writing. – the eu birds and habitats directives have contributed significantly to protecting nature in europe. however, the mid—term review shows that the union is about to seriously fail in achieving its biodiversity targets if no improvements are made. this resolution calls for a stepping up of efforts for the protection of biodiversity in the upcoming mid-term review, and for these reasons i support the general aim of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendations to achieve the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy 2010-2020. the eu has the strictest environmental protection legislation in the world. when properly implemented, this legislation has produced excellent results, but the mid-term review shows that the eu is on the verge of failing to achieve its biodiversity objectives if no improvements are made. biodiversity losses have increased at an alarming rate: more than three quarters of important natural habitats are in a critical state and a quarter of all species are threatened with extinction. it is our duty to work to protect our biodiversity in europe for future generations. i therefore supported the mechanism calling for a redoubled effort to protect our biodiversity.
in writing. europe's nature, its ecosystems and its biodiversity are under severe pressure. we have repeatedly reached this conclusion, and there have been equally noble efforts, action plans and strategies to prevent the risk of extinction of a growing number of endangered animal and plant species. a new strategy to halt the loss of biodiversity in europe was launched in 2011. the ambition was to stop the loss and restore as many habitats and ecosystems as possible by 2020. the parliament's report now contains the mid-term evaluation of the eu's biodiversity strategy. in 2015, the verdict is again harsh: without major efforts, the eu will be out of its league again in 2020 and its rich biodiversity will be much smaller. human activities are at the root of species extinction and habitat loss. so the key to restoring nature and biodiversity is in the same human. the report rightly calls on all concerned, everyone, to make additional efforts to speed up the implementation and application of existing legislation and the nature directives.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the european parliament adopted by a large majority the recommendations for achieving the objectives of the eu biodiversity strategy 2010-2020. it is no coincidence that biodiversity is in danger almost everywhere in europe. in may 2015, the european commission published an alarming report on the state of nature conservation in europe. almost half of the continent's bird species are endangered (48%) and more than half of the other species are in poor conservation status (60%). it is regrettable that belgium, and the walloon region in particular, is doing even worse in terms of habitat conservation. i am in favour of a drastic increase in efforts to protect our biodiversity by implementing more of the union's ambitious legislation rather than water it down. i am thinking in particular of the birds and habitats directives. on the other hand, the natura 2000 network, the largest network of protected areas in the world, covering 18% of the union's territory, will have to be strengthened. and to build on the encouraging results to better preserve nature and ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission and the member states to phase out environmentally harmful subsidies by 2020. the text also calls on the commission and the member states to give full support to and facilitate the transition to a circular economy. i also voted in favour of the provisions which draw attention to the negative effects that neonicotinoid pesticides can have on pollination and which therefore call on the european executive to maintain its ban on the use of these substances. as regards shale gas, which was also discussed, i supported the paragraph calling on member states not to authorize new hydraulic fracturing activities in the union under the precautionary principle and the principle requiring preventive action, given the risks and negative impacts on the climate, the environment and biodiversity and the shortcomings observed in the european regulatory framework in this field.
in writing. - that's a shame. the steady loss of biodiversity is a matter of great concern. the targets set for 2020 will not be achieved without additional, substantial and continuous efforts. it is true that scientific evidence has shown that nature in europe would be in a much worse state without the positive impacts of the eu's birds and habitats directives, and that therefore efforts with sufficient funding are producing tangible results. however, this is still clearly not enough and there is much room for improvement.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report not because i am against biodiversity, but because this report does not pay the slightest attention to farmers. although the report calls for all actors to come together to promote biodiversity, i feel that the farmer has been completely left out. the european natura 2000 programme has only been partially implemented in the member states, or a new european programme, the trans-european network for green infrastructure (ten-g), is to be implemented by 2017.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i want to thank mr koenders, because you have rectified what the leader of your party, mr samsom has said. he has proposed a plan, and i have to tell you, you have contradicted it, and i am pleased that you have contradicted it. not by mentioning it, but by saying and defending the principle of non-refoulement and also by defending the fact that every refugee who comes has to have individual treatment, and there cannot be a collective push-out of these people. so thank you very much for that. mr kamall, you attacked me before i said anything – ok, fine. but you disappoint me, because what the chairwoman of afd has said is outrageous and a disgrace for the european union. she said that it is acceptable to shoot at people to stop refugees. and then you are saying: ‘oh, we are going to look into this statement’. no, you have to condemn this statement of the afd! that you have to do, i believe. (applause)and then my third point, mr avramopoulos, and to mr koenders, is about the content. i think we are on the wrong track. we are not going to solve the problem in the way we are dealing with it, because it does not work. commissioner, you are saying: ‘yes, the greeks are making improvements’, but you should look at the commission’s own assessment. two days ago, three days ago, last week, the commission presented an analysis of the border controls between greece and turkey, and it does not work! people are not registered – that is one of the reasons that there are thousands of young refugees, and that is the reason for the europol analysis and document. people are not kept in the right conditions. there is no distinction made on this border between economic migrants and refugees. it does not work. so our proposal is very simple: you have to use article 78 of the treaty, which gives you the possibility to take emergency measures and to take over the border, and to create a rapid response force – that is in fact what you want with the european border and coast guard – and to send people there. it is europe which has to do the task. it is a little bit too easy to say: ‘yes, yes, they are going to make improvements. we are going to make recommendations to the greek government and within three months we are going to see’. within three months there will again be 300 000 refugees coming to greece. it is not working! you have to take your responsibility: use article 78. mr koenders, that is a decision that can be taken by a qualified majority in the council immediately, on 18 february. instead of talking about all the requests by mr cameron, maybe take that decision. that is more important for the european union than all the requests of the british government. (applause)and so you have to do it. if you do not do it, the mess is going to continue. it is europe which has to organise these reception centres on the border with greece, together with the greek authorities. greece cannot say: ‘oh, it is a loss of sovereignty’. no, the outside borders are our common sovereignty, it not only greek sovereignty. and the second thing to do – and that is also what do you need to do on 18 february, commission and council – is to decide to improve the conditions in these refugee camps. people are living there on usd 7 a month. how do you give food to your children, how do you pay your for housing, your clothing, with usd 7 a month! instead of giving eur 3 billion to erdoğan, use that money to give direct assistance in the refugee camps. organise it and help the united nations to organise it, and i am pretty sure that if they receive not usd 7 a month but usd 70, 80, 200 a month for a family, they can organise themselves in an appropriate way. it is because the people do not have even the means, the money to buy food, housing and clothing that they are coming to europe. that is the second thing to do. use the eur 3 billion, not to give to the turkish government, but to help inside the refugee camps in turkey, and also in lebanon and in jordan if possible. those are the two decisions, the game-changers. it is not by waiting months now, waiting for a new council in march, that things are going to change. it is now on the 18th, now or never to make a change in this fundamental crisis and to show that europe can manage it. because do not look to the member states – they will start a race to the bottom. tomorrow they will close the borders, and the day after they will say: ‘ok, we are going to change this legislation on asylum seekers’. it is not the member states, it is europe which has to show that they can manage it, and you have to do it. (applause)
if anyone thinks that the mass influx of asylum seekers and people seeking happiness can be combined with the principles of our welfare state, he is mistaken. staying in the mud is not an option. the dutch presidency is also aware of this, and it is proposing to ferry asylum seekers from the greek islands back to turkey, a transit country, in exchange for a limited number of transfers to our continent. my party, the nva, has long advocated a systematic policy of return. how else can you guard borders? it is not enough to have migration flows recorded and managed. so we see several good elements in the dutch proposal which has strong similarities with our proposals to deal with the refugee crisis. the fact that not all colleagues agree with this was shown by statements made today and in the past few days. some suggest giving money to asylum seekers in the refugee camps. this could possibly raise prices in these camps and the eu could indirectly start sponsoring human traffickers. there are also colleagues who advocate unlimited immigration to europe by issuing tourist visas to asylum seekers. these are unrealistic proposals with perverse side effects. let us think constructively with the council of ministers. that is the least we owe the european citizen. [ the speaker will answer a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
"blue card" is the answer. i would like to say very clearly from the point of view of our group - and i may speak on behalf of our group - that we completely dissociate ourselves from that statement. shooting people is unacceptable! i think i've made myself clear. (the speaker will reply to a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. there are certain colleagues from certain groups who are advocating humanitarian visas as a kind of legal migration channel, are there not? you can't deny that, can you?
i am struck again by the incredible, impressive world strangeness of this debate here in the heavily guarded hemisphere of the european parliament. strangeness of the world! face it, colleagues, schengen is dead! there is no public support for it any more than there is for your foolish plan to make turkey a member of the european union. turkey, which was a country that started with a good arrangement between church and state and is now slowly slipping into an islamic regime with a dubious role in the case of isis, a very dubious role in human rights and in the case of the kurds. turkey, finally, a country which is now blackmailing us with this influx of illegals into europe. so there are good reasons for throwing this foolish plan of european union into the garbage immediately, because to include an increasingly islamic country of that size in the european union is the most foolish thing you could do.
madam president, the president-in-office of the council said earlier that we must find common and effective responses to the refugee crisis. he is absolutely right, and i share his view, but we must face reality, madam president. the truth is that there is no common management of the common external borders. we have to change that. the truth is that the abolition of internal border controls is on hold in a growing number of countries. we have to stop this mechanism. the truth is that the refugee distribution plan is a sad farce today. we must end this plan or make it effective. in fact, despite the promise of a cheque, a first cheque, for 3 billion, turkey still does not control its maritime borders and allows a mafia of smugglers to develop a real industry. we must stop belly dancing in front of erdogan and speak to him in a different tone. in fact, despite the launch of registration centres, so-called economic migrants are left in the wild, where they will join the ranks of illegal immigrants in one country or another. registration centres must also be reception centres. the truth is, the return policy is a mirage. we have to organize it. madam president, this is an emergency. we need a european surge, and the ball is in your hands. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your question, but i think that if we set up registration centres in our territory, they should serve a purpose and not just be used for bureaucratic recording. once people have been registered, if we let them go in all directions, we will not be able to implement a key element of the commission's programme, namely relocation. so there is no point in registering refugees if nothing happens afterwards. the first requirement is therefore to do what we have agreed to do properly.
i would like to respond very briefly to the words of mr kirkhope. it is a punishment that he compared the outburst of louis michel, a colleague who became red and angry because he was not given the floor, to someone who calls for the shooting of refugees. we've been debating for four and a half hours now! there are not a thousand ways to solve this crisis. we know what needs to be done. i'll make a call. i would like to ask: don't go to sleep. don't take any more vacations. council and commission, get to work. people die every day on the way here. we know what the solutions are. i would like to conclude by making two brief points: one, 10,000 children are missing. i would like to hear from you what action plan has been put in place to track them down and get them out of the hands of criminals; the second. my husband has a different skin color. my kids are a different color. i feel the racism rising, even in my country. what are you going to do to stop racism? there's only one answer to that: i want to see this refugee crisis addressed. let people of other colours have a future of dignity here in our europe.
member of the commission. the commission is not mr. minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, mrs gräßle, i can understand your reflections intellectually, that we could have done something differently. i would like to thank all the speakers, almost 150, for this excellent debate and to pay particular tribute to those who have been here from the beginning. i think we can agree that it makes a lot of sense to help those countries that are in the immediate neighborhood of syria and that bear the bulk of the refugee burden. this is also out of consideration - and not from a cynical aspect, but from a deeply human one - that we have to take care that those who remained as refugees in the region, including those who are refugees in syria - and we are talking about seven to eight million - that we are here to help financially so that these people can stay in the region, so that they can go to the country and help rebuild the country, with a peace that hopefully will come soon. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. so every euro we invest here - not just in turkey, but also in lebanon, jordan and eventually parts of syria and parts of iraq - is money well spent, even from the point of view of the european union. i say this in particular to some of the finance ministers who may have a slightly different view of the matter. the commission has been able to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. this is a stockholding order. it is not that these three billion will be provided to turkey up front; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this money is to be used exclusively in syrian refugee camps in turkey, for measures of education, health care, provision of shelter. importantly, this money is being managed by us, by my staff at dg near. turkey has a consultative status, so to speak. of course, it makes sense to ask them where and how the money is to be used effectively. but the management, the management, is with us, and the use is based on a needs assessment. it'll be done by the middle of february. it also finds out where, how and to what extent these needs actually exist. the three billion, by the way, are just one element in an action plan to put relations with turkey on a new footing. i say this because, although not in the debate today, there is constant criticism in the public debate - especially in recent days - that we as the european union do not react or do not respond to human rights violations or to the non-respect of fundamental rights. i can assure you that in the negotiations under way, particularly in the preparation of chapters 23 and 24, there will be no compromise of the fundamental principles, the rule of law, which are non-negotiable. there are standards here that must be respected. and, mr böge, you are right, i too would have liked and would like to see simpler and more transparent financing mechanisms. but, frankly, we are faced with the challenge of whether we are helping or losing ourselves in institutional discussions, in how to set up the money, supplementary budgets and so on. i think that this is like asking whether the fire brigade should go to the firefighting or whether we should first go into a comprehensive public procurement, what fire extinguishers we buy and when and until when. so this is really about saying, okay, we have to put the money up, we had to put it up. i would like to take this opportunity to thank kristalina georgeva and her team for doing such a great job. one point that perhaps my friend dimitris avramopoulos will also address is that the composition of the refugee flow, particularly in the western balkans, has already changed very significantly in the last weeks and months, and today we can talk about 40 percent or less of the refugees being actually syrians. the others are from other countries. the un high commissioner for refugees told me just last wednesday that 45 percent of the afghan refugees arriving in greece were born in iran. you can't assume that these are just babies. so here, the complexity of the refugee flow has already taken on a dimension that is also politically addressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this must be the top priority, because only in this way can we maintain schengen, a schengen from which our people are now benefiting and who are accustomed to finding, especially in central europe, unlimited mobility that has become part of everyday practice. the first priority must therefore be to ensure the security of the external borders. i hope that the negotiations in the council based on the commission's proposal will indeed lead to a clear result and that we will get a clear result here relatively soon and a clear mandate to put things into practice.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by expressing our thanks for this fruitful and – in terms of length and endurance – marathon-like debate. it really has been very useful. i very much welcome the fact that we all share the same objectives of honouring the values of europe by respecting the rights of refugees and making sure that we preserve the schengen area – one of the most tangible achievements, if not the most tangible achievement, of european integration. you can rest assured that the commission will not hesitate to use all the means that it has in order to do so; that point has again been made very clearly today. and now some words in greek. είναι αυτονόητο ότι όλες οι χώρες μέλη της ζώνης σένγκεν οφείλουν να εφαρμόζουν τα προβλεπόμενα από τον συνοριακό κώδικα. είναι μια βασική αρχή που όλα τα κράτη μέλη οφείλουν να σέβονται. όμως, θέλω να είμαι σαφής για μία ακόμα φορά. ποτέ δεν τέθηκε, ούτε τίθεται θέμα αποκλεισμού χώρας μέλους της σένγκεν από τη ζώνη σένγκεν. αυτό ούτε καν προβλέπεται. πολλές δε από τις ελλείψεις που παρατηρούνται, που σημειώνονται, σχετίζονται αναπόφευκτα και με τις μεταναστευτικές ροές. αυτό αναγνωρίζεται από όλους, και αυτές καλύπτονται και από τη συνδρομή των κρατών μελών, αλλά και της ίδιας της επιτροπής. η επιτροπή άμεσα και έμμεσα στέκεται στο πλευρό της ελλάδας και όλων των κρατών μελών που είναι αυτό τον καιρό υπό πίεση, και θα μου επιτρέψετε τώρα αφού έκανα αυτή την επισήμανση, την τόσο ξεκάθαρη, να συνεχίσω και πάλι στα αγγλικά. mr president, i would also like to say a few words and give an answer to what guy verhofstadt said at the beginning. what we are trying to achieve with the establishment of hotspots presents many common features with the concept of the european rapid refugee emergency force (erref) that mr verhofstadt has proposed to establish. in operational hotspots, the european asylum support office (easo), frontex, europol and – where necessary – eurojust are all already working on the ground and with international organisations to swiftly identify, register and fingerprint incoming migrants. the commission has deployed teams on the ground to improve coordination. none can – or will – take over the borders of any member state. we want to be very clear on that. but all member states, according to the principle of solidarity, have to – and do – offer support to the frontline member states to deal with this unprecedented pressure. the sovereignty of member states is ensured by the treaties. yes, delays exist, but it is the wrong strategy to change strategy only because of panic. on this point, i very much agree with the intervention of the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), claude moraes: we will succeed, and we can only succeed, together. greece is accelerating this implementation, and debates like the one here today are once again sending the right messages to all governments to do their part of the commitments. the commission will certainly keep playing its part and much more. we will not stop the implementation of the comprehensive approach of the european union’s migration agenda. in march we will issue a communication on migration management, announcing further steps to be taken. also in march, we intend to table a modified smart borders proposal. we also intend to present an ambitious migration management package, including a proposal to reform the dublin system. a structural eu resettlement scheme, as well as legal migration and integration initiatives such as the revision of the blue card, will also be part of the package. i count on the full support of parliament in the preparation of these proposals. as i said before, we all have to do our share and not hide our heads in the sand or just look for simple solutions – which, i am afraid, do not exist. i look forward to working with you on the pending proposals. there is a lot of work ahead of us. let us do it together.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, let me first say that i appreciate the many comments made during this this debate. i also understand some of the frustrations that were expressed by many members of different political persuasions. it is clear that the management of the flow of asylum seekers into europe is a stress test for all of us, for our countries and for the confidence within and between our societies. it makes no sense to use the asylum seeker debate for narrow political agendas or narratives. that is a luxury we simply cannot afford. blame games are easily played, and simplistic solutions are easily found, for what is in reality a very complex humanitarian problem. in my view, european cooperation and solidarity remain key. i agree with the many colleagues here who have said it is very good to have a lot on paper, but the question is how we put it into action. the presidency is extremely active with the member states in putting conclusions into action with turkey and greece on screening and border controls. concerning the western balkan road, we are working in partnership with lebanon and jordan to – as, i think, ms piri said – come up with a model which ends the cynical business model of smugglers, the reason why people are killed on the seas. that is what we have to stop, and it turns out to be a little bit more complex than we thought. i share all the frustrations that people have expressed here tonight – people are still dying on the seas every day. maybe there is no white smoke yet, but pessimistic panic does not help. there is no reason for complacency. let me say a few words about values, a few words about hot spots, about questions that were raised as to the future of schengen on the principle of non-refoulement and on the issue of turkey. first, on values. the point made here by most members, although others will not agree, is that we are faced with a stress test of our european values. we all have to realise that we cannot be comforted by the reactions on this issue in our societies from all sides right now. the council is perfectly aware of the difficult situation of refugees massively fleeing conflict regions or migrants who, for other reasons, are trying to reach to europe. we will do everything possible to improve the situation. i think mr pittella spoke about that. these are our values that are at stake, but the values are not so easy to put into practice, because it leads to confrontations in our societies, to fear and then to reactions to this fear. we will, therefore, have to balance the different identities that we have in our societies in a manner consistent with our democratic values. we could talk about it for much longer but it is key that we realise that together we must try to build a consensus around this. i have heard a lot of opposing views on this, and this is very legitimate; it is a common problem. we will have to search for solutions in our societies to deal with this. on external policy and external values, i can mention some measures that have already been adopted, such as the support given by the eu budget and by member states in particular to help the unhcr to respond to the needs of refugees in camps established close to their places of origin, in particular in iraq, jordan, lebanon and turkey. just yesterday i came back from addis ababa where i discussed this with the african union. discussions, and more, are also taking place about how we can conduct very practical follow-up to the valletta agreement. the commission is also providing additional support to its partners operating in origin or transit countries outside the european union. in parallel to these measures, the european union is contributing to the development of safe and sustainable reception capacities in the affected regions and the provision of lasting prospects and adequate procedures for refugees and their families until they can be returned to their country of origin, if possible. if necessary, we will examine and adopt measures aimed at improving their situation. a lot more can be said about the origins of this crisis as well, but we can leave that for another debate when we will discuss issues around syria and conflict resolution there. on hot spots, yes, it is true that progress has been too slow. we can all agree on this. a network of hot spots in italy and greece is a cornerstone of the eu’s efforts to ease the migratory pressure, ensure the identification of those third-country nationals in real need of international protection and facilitate return operations. well-functioning hot spots are crucial to stemming the migration flows and ultimately safeguard the schengen area. the european council expects a commission report assessing the progress in the set-up of the hot spot areas which will update the information presented in december 2015, and the council itself is also monitoring the situation on the ground, through integrated political crisis response (ipcr) reports. we are very proactive at the moment because that is a challenge right now. if you want to translate the declarations into actions you have to be very hands-on. in the european union we are used to more long-term issues of development and of development cooperation. here we have to react immediately, and our systems are not necessarily used to that, so we have to change that. with that hands-on way of working we can also counter some of the legitimate criticisms on things that are going too slowly. without prejudice to the commission’s upcoming report, we can say that since december progress has been achieved. we should also recognise this. in italy, two new additional locations were declared operational, in pozzallo in sicily and in trapani, and in greece work is under way to ensure that two hot spot areas, in theos and leros, are made operational soon. furthermore, the reception capacities in both italy and greece have increased, including through the support of member states and the specialised eu and un agencies. we are not there yet, but we must pursue this effort with renewed commitment, and we expect the european council to deliver a strong message to all relevant actors to make quick progress on the reception and identification of migrants. italy, for instance, reportedly now has a rate of 100% for registration and fingerprinting. this is important progress. it has also ensured that disembarkation is done via the hot spots. greece has informed us that migrants can only leave the hot spot areas by ferry if they can present registration papers. greece has put in place a number of measures to increase the security of documents and to check if the migrant is indeed registered. greece should also receive additional eurodac machines in the coming days. a lot of questions were raised around schengen, and correctly so. it is one of the cornerstones and success stories of european cooperation, if not european integration. the continuing flow of migrants over the past months has seen several countries temporarily re-imposing border controls – germany, followed by austria, denmark, finland, the netherlands, norway, slovakia and sweden. this temporary reintroduction of border controls is in line with the schengen acquis, subject to strict conditions involving a serious threat to public policy or internal security and time limitations. that is an issue. the migration pressure has not decreased, and time is running out. the only way to go beyond the maximum time limit during which internal border controls may be carried out is to adopt a council recommendation based on a commission proposal under article 26 of the schengen borders code. this is a scenario that involves an elaborate procedure under the schengen evaluation mechanism. this scenario should result in a series of measures protecting the overall functioning of the schengen system, a system which is at the heart of the european project and one of its greatest achievements, as i mentioned. on this basis, the eu interior ministers discussed the matter informally in amsterdam on 25 and 26 january 2015. there was broad support for inviting the commission to make a proposal for a recommendation under article 26 of the schengen borders code. we are committed. the presidency is committed to maintaining the schengen system. it will do all it can to find, in cooperation with the commission, parliament and the member states concerned, a solution to the current problems. coming back to the principle of non-refoulement, there were quite a few remarks on this issue. this remains a key principle of our politics. in order to ease the migratory pressure on front-line member states and to ensure the identification of those third-country nationals in real need of international protection, the council is working hard to operationalise the network of hot spots and to speed up the implementation of the relocation and resettlement mechanisms adopted in 2015. in that context, the issue of non-refoulement remains extremely important and a principle. on turkey, the establishment of the eu common list of safe countries of origin is, as many have stated here this afternoon, a very complex issue and one that the council preparatory bodies are currently discussing. the final decision will have to be reached later on the basis of a very precise assessment on the eu-turkey joint action plan, as welcomed by the european council at its meeting in october. this is, as you know, part of a comprehensive cooperation agenda based on shared responsibility, mutual commitment and delivery. i just wanted to answer a question from mr verhofstadt. this does not mean that money is automatically sent to the turkish government. that is not the case. we are in the process of working with the turkish government on assurances that this is not a blank cheque to the turkish government but funding for programmes that have to alleviate the conditions of refugees in turkey. i think mr olbrycht also mentioned the mff in this context. we had a conference in amsterdam last week where many speakers argued that the migration crisis demonstrates the need for more flexibility in the eu budget to allow us to have the resources available to meet unexpected challenges. we will try to move that forward within the time that we have in our presidency to see how much more flexibility we can bring to our budget, something which is so badly needed in this crisis.
in writing. we must now bring order out of chaos and stop the national football panic. some people think we should push refugees back to the open sea, others think we should open fire at the border. that is not how we see it at all. our priority remains to ensure that people do not drown at sea and that we have a handle on the flow of refugees. there's only one way to do that. the deployment of an eu border and coast guard to monitor the external borders and assess applications at hotspots at the external borders. we need to combine that with closer cooperation with turkey and investment in the refugee camps in syria's neighbouring countries, so that the living conditions there improve dramatically and the number of people coming here decreases dramatically. those plans are on the table. it is high time that at the next european summit in two weeks' time, we took big steps forward. we must stop blaming each other and the greek government must finally agree to european support for border control. if we do not, it will be at the expense of the most vulnerable, the war refugees, who need our help the most.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, why does equality between women and men, the founding principle of the european union, no longer deserve - i say 'more' because it has so far been the case - a commission communication, a real action programme with a budget, an evaluation, or even legislative measures if they prove necessary? would we have achieved our goals? if that is the case, i apologize, but i think there are still difficulties with the employment rate for women, there is still discrimination, there is still violence and there are still, above all, gender stereotypes. so i ask again, why not a communication? in the last two years, however, there have been communications from the commission. i would like to mention a few: a communication on engine noise, a communication on the civil use of piloted aircraft systems, a communication on package travel, and i could go on. but when it comes to women, we are told: 'oh no, no, no, no, no', especially not, we need administrative simplification, we need the refit programme, we need maternity leave to fall into the trap. that is the commission's position, and i am sorry to hear mrs le grip say that it is semantics. it is not semantics, it is politics, it is politics that sets priorities. today, the european commission has not defined equality for women as its priority.
i do not think we need to repeat that endocrine disruptors are of course a matter of great concern, not only here in this parliament but to the population as a whole. it's about products that we use every day in clothing, furniture, electronics, adhesives, cosmetics, you name it, and so they're present every day. it is therefore essential that we remove this uncertainty and finally come up with clear scientifically based criteria. it is very good that you are announcing here that you will be putting those criteria into practice shortly before the summer, and as soon as possible, and it is also very good that we will be communicating very broadly and very clearly about this. it seems that everything is bad now and that nothing has happened yet, but perhaps it is useful to point out that we already have strict rules - you have already referred to this, commissioner - for the use of chemicals in toys and in plastics. and of course we have the reach regulations, which are systematically investigating the impact of endocrine disruptors. but it is indeed time now to take those steps forward. the judges' verdict - you said it yourself - leaves no doubt. in the context of maximum consumer protection, we must take these steps now so that not only consumers but also producers know what they are facing in the short term and so that they know what alternatives they have to come up with.
the whole headache about the criteria, the postponement and the conviction, of course, has everything to do with the lobby of the chemical industry. part of the controversy in this discussion is the industry's argument to bring in potency as one of the criteria. that's a perfidious political ploy to say, only the most potent, the strongest hormone disruptors can be considered. inspector, i have two bottles here, a bottle of poire williams eau de vie from france, 43 degrees. i have a bottle of belgian beer, a duvel, 8.5 alcohol. would you dare to say, commissioner, that the poire williams is alcohol and the bottle of duvel is not? well, that's exactly what the industry is trying to do with hormone disruptors. the hormonal disruptors with the most potency, the strongest, those will become hormonal disruptors and the others will not. commissioner, you know that we have a veto on the criteria you will put forward. i warn you that our group will veto the criteria if they mention potential.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a lot of everyday objects contain what are called endocrine disruptors. think of the frying pan we use to cook, the painted wooden floor we walk on barefoot, the plastic butter bread box we take to school with our children, or the pesticides we use to protect our crops. the consequences of exposure to these substances may - as has been said many times - include infertility, breast cancer and diabetes. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in december the ecj delivered the judgment just discussed; the commission therefore considered that scientific criteria for these substances should have been established by the end of 2013 at the latest. i pointed this out in a request for a written answer last year. so basically, it's about getting these dangerous substances strictly regulated, because there's really strong evidence that these substances are harmful and also have serious social consequences. for example, relevant economic studies have shown that the diseases caused cost our health budgets nearly 160 billion euros a year. a strict and appropriate legal framework can therefore contribute to a much better protection of human health. and that's exactly the precautionary principle. if there is the slightest doubt that an active substance is harmful to health, that active substance cannot be authorised in europe. it should be that simple. i therefore appeal to the commission to be the advocate of consumers and not the advocate of the big chemical companies. i'm sure the latter will find alternatives.
madam president, i imagine that 16 december 2015 will remain a date etched on the commission's tablets. this is the first time that the european court of justice has condemned the commission for failing to fulfil its obligations in the matter of endocrine disruptors. a fine thing, you'll admit, for the guardian of the treaties... however, the scientific community and the european parliament have long warned against the harmful effects of these substances on health. i abstained on the reach regulation ten years ago, in 2006, precisely because these endocrine disruptors were not defined by objective criteria. it has been ten years, commissioner, ten long years, and, strangely enough, three years now, since the commission has been obliged to provide these criteria. i listened to you very carefully, you said... "we have the firm intention to comply with the judgment of the court before summer". we take note, commissioner, but we will remain vigilant, vigilant as the sioux. you haven't given us any reason to trust you.
in writing. i would like to denounce the european commission for its inertia in the endocrine disruptors issue. these can cause cancer, hormonal imbalance, impaired sperm quality, and premature puberty. the commission, by not publishing the scientific criteria for defining these disruptors and by not proposing an update of the legislation, has become outlawed in the eyes of european law. worse still, the european commission, by its ineffectiveness in this matter, bears a share of responsibility for each new victim caused by this scourge which affects the health of millions of europeans. the commission, which was found guilty by the court of justice of the european union, justified its decision by stating that it was prepared to carry out an impact assessment. what a bad joke! the commission would like to save time and play into the hands of the industrial mega-groups which it would not otherwise have taken up. it is unacceptable to treat the health of europeans with such disrespect! science must continue its research, but the citizen must not be a guinea pig! we must regulate these substances!
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i will immediately echo mr groote's remarks. so far, clinical trials have always had good press. those who participate, often medical staff or medical students, are happy to contribute to biomedical research. then there was this accident in rennes on sunday, january 10: one death and five people hospitalized during the testing of a painkiller product carried out in phase 1, that is, on a small group of healthy volunteers. an extremely rare, but serious, accident, which justifies our discussing it tonight. i would also like to express my deepest sympathy to the families of the victims and to those who are still fighting for their health. this is an opportunity to remind you that these clinical trials are more than ever an essential step before any medicines are put on the market and that europe must remain a strong player in this research. i hope that my country of origin, belgium, which produces 15% of european medicines, will continue to be recognised for its expertise in this field. i would also like to ask our commissioner two questions on transparency. is it true, commissioner, that the publication of all drug test results, one of the key measures of the new european regulation that parliament has negotiated so hard, is being postponed from may 2016 to 2018? is it also true that the current trend in laboratories in europe is to set up parallel groups in phase 1, i.e. groups where patients are given a higher dose straight away without any prior testing? in any case, this is what happened in rennes, the six victims being precisely those who had received the so-called higher doses. we know that europe is facing increasing competition from elsewhere in this sector, but you will of course agree with us that the race to validate its clinical trials should never be at the expense of the health and safety of european citizens.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i will start today where i ended yesterday, because we had a whole debate yesterday with mr koenders about the refugee crisis. mr koenders, i am pleased that now – at the request of the commission – the refugee crisis will be the main topic on the agenda of the summit on 18 and 19 february 2016 because, despite the importance of the british issue, let us be honest, the refugee crisis we are facing is far more important. we have to show our citizens that we are capable of solving this. mr koenders and mr juncker, my request to you is to put two proposals on the table on 18 february. first of all, regarding the rapid response force: why not, using article 78(3) of the treaty, advance the european border and coastguard? we can do that without a change of legislation. we can also immediately start to send the 2 000 civil servants from the national border agencies. mr juncker, the commission’s latest report said that there was a disaster on the border between greece and turkey. four of the five hotspots are not there. there is no fingerprinting control and there is no appropriate registration. those are not my findings but the findings of the commission. so my proposal is to do that, to propose article 78 as the basis to launch this rapid response force immediately. secondly, let us also consider the idea that the eur 3 billion will now be directed as financial assistance to the people in the refugee camps instead of giving it to the turkish government. i completely agree with mr weber when he says that if the council is not capable now of taking such decisions in such a situation, then we have to ask ourselves: why have we created the european council? in the treaty, it says that all strategic options are a competence of the european council. you are not capable of taking strategic options. you demonstrate and illustrate that every time. i hope i am wrong; i hope that mr weber is wrong and that the european council will surprise us this time by taking decisions that really make a difference. that brings me to the official topic of the summit: the request of the united kingdom to renegotiate its position. let me be very clear: it would be a huge mistake for britain to leave the european union. not so much economically, mr kamall, but most of all geopolitically. i think britain without europe will be a dwarf. let us be honest, we belgians know that we are dwarves, but maybe they will know it too. on the other hand, europe without great britain does not count and is not a counterweight against china, against russia and against the united states. in fact, mr kamall, it is putin who will win in this game in the end, because putin likes a divided europe. mr farage and mr putin: they are the ones who want a divided europe. i am very sympathetic to david cameron’s request with the aim of reforming europe. the question is only whether the paper we received yesterday from mr tusk is really what we need. in any case, i do not have so much of a problem with the four points, but only with one of the four points. that is the point, mr koenders, that, in my opinion, you have to completely rewrite – in the days to come in the ‘sherpa’ meetings, and in the european council – the part where mr tusk says that an ever closer union is not an ever closer union. that is in the text. it has nothing to do with sharing values; it has nothing to do with more political integration. i think i should tell you that magritte and surrealism were not only part of belgian culture, but i can now see that it is also a part of polish culture and of mr tusk’s culture. you know that painting of magritte’s where we show a pipe and then we put in french ‘ceci n’est pas une pipe’? it is little like that in this proposal of mr tusk’s. an ever closer union is not an ever closer union. in one page, he explained what the difference is. i have to tell you that, not only is it in contradiction with article 352 of the treaty, but i think that it is perhaps better to have another option. instead of really destroying our project of political integration in one page, why is it not better to give a new opt-out to britain? they have an opt-out on schengen; they have an opt-out on the euro; they have opt-out on police coordination. they have an opt-out on at least seven different elements today. well, create another opt-out. the reality is that we have a two-tier europe today. okay, if they want another opt-out, i think that is better than to do the opposite and to destroy the idea of an ever-closer union, because britain has to stay. no, i think it is better to be honest with the people and to create an additional opt-out. finally, on the emergency brake: this will be discussed in the normal legislative procedure. however, let us be honest, mr juncker, i hope that this is the last time. we got an emergency brake from mr sarkozy on schengen. maybe tomorrow, mr renzi will ask for one for the stability pact, and maybe the day after tomorrow mr françois hollande will ask for one for the internal market. i think that is enough. okay, give mr cameron his emergency brake, but then stop destroying the union with emergency brakes in all directions. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i see, mr sulík, why we are not in the same group; i am a positive person and you are a negative one. instead of pushing greece out immediately, i think: let us take all responsibility with the european union. we have a common border, the common border of schengen; let us protect it and manage it together with a european border and coastguard. that seems to me to be a better, a positive european result than to exclude members of the union. that is the difference between you and us.
to be or not to be together, that is indeed the question, to go on together or not. this is the question that the british voters will have to answer. whether the referendum deal will be enough for them, you have to ask them. they have to decide, they alone. but one thing is certain: europe urgently needs these real reforms. what is on the table is also a strong step towards a european union that is more competitive, more efficient and more well behaved. what strikes me is that some people are now taking their dreams for granted. they dream of the british leaving the union or of being given a b status in the european margin, because then the rest of the european union could be fully integrated into that european superstate. i 'm telling you very clearly: no, no, no. i'm not going to. the heart of europe will always be that unity and diversity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism allowing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. the purpose of this proposal is to create the legal instrument allowing the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism provided for in the agreement already concluded with moldova. as regards safeguard measures, they could only be adopted if the product concerned is imported into the union in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause serious injury to union producers of like or directly competing products. as regards the anti-circumvention mechanism, the proposed regulation provides for the possibility of suspending preferential customs duties for a period of up to six months when imports of certain agricultural and processed agricultural products reach the annual import volumes defined in the agreement. implementing powers shall be conferred on the commission in order to ensure uniform conditions for the adoption of safeguard measures.
in writing. the introduction of safeguard measures is a mandatory step to protect our companies from possible abuses and to prevent any negative impact on the european market. the safeguard clause provided for in that report allows the temporary suspension of the application of the tariff preferences provided for in the association agreement between the union and moldova in the event that, following the elimination of the tariff barriers concerning them, certain products from moldova are imported into the union in excess quantities, thus causing economic injury to european producers. on the other hand, the anti-circumvention mechanism is important to prevent imports into the union of non-moldovan products via moldova, thus benefiting from the benefits of the agreement, from circumventing the obligations on rules of origin. this mechanism allows the reintroduction of the mfn rate when the volume of imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceeds a certain ceiling without a valid justification of their exact origin. this mechanism therefore imposes an obligation of transparency on rules of origin when the volume of imports is high, thus protecting european companies from possible abuses.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova was signed on 24 june 2014 and has been provisionally applied since 1 september 2014. it introduces a preferential regime for trade in goods, creating a deep free trade area. council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 establishes autonomous trade preferences for the republic of moldova and will continue to apply in parallel until 31 december 2015. the eu is moldova's largest trading partner, accounting for 46.4% of its trade, followed by russia (21.9%) and ukraine (11.8%). trade with moldova represents 0.1% of the total trade of the union. the commission established the volume of imports from the prc on the basis of eurostat data. the latter represent a significant share of all union imports from moldova. the main exports from moldova to the union are oilseeds, nuts, apple juice and cereals, while the union mainly exports spirits, certain fruits and vegetables such as citrus fruits, as well as pork and feed.
in writing. ‒ a regulation of the european parliament and of the council is needed to incorporate these instruments into eu law and to allow the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism. the association agreement with moldova, like most of our trade agreements, contains a bilateral safeguard clause. this instrument allows the temporary suspension of preferences in the event of an unforeseen and significant increase in imports and economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing party (in other words, it allows either the suspension of further tariff liberalization or the reintroduction of the most-favoured-nation tariff rate). the agreement also provides for an 'anti-circumvention mechanism' which allows the reintroduction of the most-favoured-nation tariff rate when the volume of imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceeds a certain ceiling without a valid justification of their exact origin.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism is necessary in the context of the association agreement with moldova to enforce certain obligations and, if necessary, to protect european producers or directly competing companies against a sudden increase in imports of a particular product that could cause them serious damage.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of the report on the establishment of an anti-circumvention mechanism with regard to georgia. as in the case of moldova, it is important to protect european companies from possible abuse of the tariff preferences granted under the association agreement with georgia. the mechanism, which is designed to limit the risk of customs duty evasion through transit through georgia, sets thresholds above which the tariff preferences provided for in the agreement may be suspended. this is essential in order to preserve our businesses. the anti-circumvention mechanism for sensitive agricultural products thus allows the reintroduction of the most-favoured-nation rate of customs duty when the volume of imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceeds a specified ceiling without their exact origin being validly justified.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement between the european union and georgia was signed on 27 june 2014. the agreement introduces an ambitious preferential regime for trade in goods between the two parties, by establishing a deep free trade area. the union is now georgia's largest trading partner, with 27.2% of its trade with the union (neighbouring turkey and azerbaijan occupying second and third places respectively). at the same time, trade with georgia represents 0.1% of the total trade of the union. the eu-georgia association agreement discussed this afternoon provides for an 'anti-circumvention mechanism' which allows the most-favoured-nation tariff rate to be reintroduced when the volume of imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceeds a certain ceiling without their exact origin being validly justified. it is necessary that a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishes, within the framework of union law, the instrument for applying the anti-circumvention mechanism.
in writing. ‒ this report will help to improve parliamentary scrutiny of the commission's implementation of the common commercial policy and its transparency. the proposal for a regulation requires the commission to submit to the co-legislators, before making it public, an annual report on the application and implementation of the regulation. the european parliament may invite the commission to attend an ad hoc meeting of its committee responsible in order to explain or make explicit any point relating to the implementation of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this anti-circumvention mechanism because it provides for the possible reintroduction of customs duties when imports of agricultural products from georgia exceed certain thresholds without adequate clarification of the exact origin of these products.
in writing. the european union and the member states signed the marrakesh treaty in april 2014 and have made a political commitment to ratify it. the aim of this treaty is to facilitate access to published works by the blind, visually impaired and other print disabled. the world health organization estimated in 2010 that there were 2.5 million blind people and 23.8 million visually impaired people in all of europe. moreover, only 5% of all books published in developed countries and less than 1% in developing countries are produced in accessible formats. the european union should therefore be encouraged to take all appropriate measures to ratify and implement this treaty as soon as possible and also to ask the council and the member states to speed up the ratification process. i support this project because it is important that the right of disabled people to education without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities is respected.
in writing. ‒ the marrakesh treaty aims to facilitate access to books and other printed matter for blind or visually impaired people. in europe, there are more than 26.35 million citizens who are visually impaired or blind. however, only 5% of all books published in the member states (and... less than 1% in developing countries) are produced in accessible formats. the text i voted for deplores the fact that seven member states of the union have formed a blocking minority to obstruct the process of ratification of the treaty and calls on the council to speed up ratification.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which, on the one hand, recalls that articles 24 and 30 of the un convention emphasise the right of persons with disabilities to education, without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities, and the need to ensure that laws protecting intellectual property rights do not constitute an unreasonable or discriminatory barrier to access by persons with disabilities to cultural goods, and, on the other hand, notes with deep indignation that seven member states of the european union have constituted a minority bloc obstructing the treaty ratification process. we call on the council and the member states to speed up the ratification process without making ratification conditional on the revision of the union's legal framework or the decision of the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the resolution calls on the council to speed up the ratification process of the marrakesh treaty as a matter of urgency, given that it was signed two and a half years ago. at the same time, we also call on those member states which have not yet ratified the convention to do so as a matter of urgency. that is why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, in this resolution, rejects a commission decision to allow glyphosate-tolerant gm soybeans to be used throughout the eu. in view of the fact that the plant protection product glyphosate in particular has been classified as a possible carcinogen by the world health organisation and that i am opposed to gmo food in general because of the unknown long-term effects, i fully support this resolution.
in writing. – i believe in science-based policy; to this extent i believe that it is the task of the european food safety authority (efsa) to decide whether a genetically modified organism is safe and fit for consumption. the efsa advice should be the basis for the final decision. since the efsa advice was positive, i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ this resolution not only opposes the admission of a specific gmo to the eu market, but advocates a de facto moratorium on gmos pending a new approval procedure and an amendment to regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. the n-va did not support the objection. the approval procedure for gmos is strict. the efsa risk assessment plays a crucial role in this. the n-va strongly believes in science-based and evidence-based policy. approval of the text presented would undermine the credibility of the efsa. in addition, the european commission did not exceed its mandate in this implementing act: if the member states do not reach a qualified majority, the european commission is empowered to approve the gmo on the basis of a positive opinion from efsa. it is noted that there is no scientific consensus on glyphosate. i recognize the concerns about glyphosate and i call for a thorough discussion of this controversial substance. it is important to distinguish between gmo technology and application. it is also clear that the (possible) use of gmos must always be part of an agricultural policy that integrates the protection of human health, the environment and biodiversity, where an integrated pest management system is essential for the sustainable use of pesticides and non-chemical alternatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection of the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) against three european commission decisions authorising the marketing of feed containing transgenic soybeans produced by monsanto and bayer. these three genetically modified soya beans have the unique ability to tolerate herbicides containing glyphosate, including monsanto's roundup, a substance classified as a probable carcinogen by the world health organization. considers that the three authorisation decisions are not compatible with the european union's objectives in the field of human and animal health, as defined in legislative texts. that is why i welcome today's vote and the clear majority in the european parliament to veto the marketing of genetically modified soy products.
in writing. when the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) published its full study at the end of july 2015, the european commission asked the european food safety authority (efsa) to take it into account in its assessment of the renewal of glyphosate at european level. a belgian toxicology expert also collaborated in the analysis of this study by efsa. the commission finally published its opinion on glyphosate on 12 november 2015 and concluded that glyphosate is unlikely to be carcinogenic to humans. efsa has based its assessment on the report of the rapporteur member state, germany, but also on relevant studies published over the last 10 years and with the collaboration of representatives of member states' risk assessment bodies. this conclusion, although contrary to the iarc's opinion, confirms the conclusions of the majority of international toxicological bodies.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, meps voted three times against the authorisation of the marketing of three types of gmo soybeans. the first objection concerns genetically modified soybean fg72 adopted by 427 votes to 237. it was unilaterally authorised by the commission on 18 november 2015. it is true that the application for the placing on the market of food ingredients and feed containing fg72 soybean was submitted in june 2011 by bayer cropscience to the belgian authorities and that this file could not be blocked indefinitely. but the european parliament opposed the commission less to convey the rejection of gmos by a majority of european citizens than to emphasise the specific characteristics of fg72 soybean, which is tolerant of herbicides containing glyphosate. the active substance, which is found in commercial products such as the weed killer roundup, was classified as a 'probable carcinogen' for humans on 20 march 2015 by the world health organisation. this is reason enough, coupled with a lack of confidence in the commission, which uses and abuses this procedure for authorizing the import of gmos without any democratic legitimacy.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon i voted for the european commission not to allow the use of three genetically modified soya beans that tolerate glyphosate in food and feed products. glyphosate is a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the world health organisation (who) since 20 march 2015. the three genetically modified soya beans that have already been authorised by the european commission in food and feed products are fg72, mon 87708 x mon 89788 and mon 87705 x mon 89788. in the vote today i supported each of the three objections which call for their rejection.
in writing. - no, you won't. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. our objective is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests. the european consumer must not be the guinea pig of the multinationals!!!
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to accepting the genetically modified soybean. we must rely on science and our european food safety authority. they believe this crop is safe. with a growing population and increasing threats to the climate, we need modern plant breeding in europe. among other things, these modern techniques for growing crops and other plants can contribute to a better diet for the world's population and a better climate.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, in this resolution, rejects a commission decision to allow glyphosate-tolerant gm soybeans to be used throughout the eu. in view of the fact that the plant protection product glyphosate in particular has been classified as a possible carcinogen by the world health organisation and that i am opposed to gmo food in general because of the unknown long-term effects, i fully support this resolution.
in writing. – i believe in science-based policy; to this extent i believe that it is the task of the european food safety authority (efsa) to decide whether a genetically modified organism is safe and fit for consumption. the efsa advice should be the basis for the final decision. since the efsa advice was positive, i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection of the european parliament's committee on the environment against three european commission decisions authorising the marketing of feed containing gm soybeans produced by monsanto and bayer. these three gm soybeans have the unique ability to develop tolerance to herbicides containing glyphosate, including monsanto's roundup, a substance classified as a probable carcinogen by the world health organization. considers that the three authorisation decisions are not compatible with the european union's objectives in the field of human and animal health, as defined in legislative texts. that is why i welcome today's vote and the clear majority in the european parliament to veto the marketing of gm soy products.
in writing. the european food safety authority (efsa) and the eu member states have finalised the re-evaluation of glyphosate, a chemical widely used in pesticides, based on a study carried out by efsa as part of the legal process for the renewal of the authorisation of glyphosate in the union. it concludes that the substance is unlikely to be genotoxic (i.e. to damage dna) or to pose a carcinogenic threat to humans. the experts did not propose that glyphosate be categorised as a carcinogen in the eu regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of chemicals. in particular, all but one of the member states' experts agreed that neither the epidemiological (human) data nor the evidence from animal studies demonstrated a causal link between exposure to glyphosate and the development of cancer in humans.
in writing. ‒ the political signal sent this afternoon by meps is clear. in approving the objection to the marketing authorisation of genetically modified soybean mon 87708 x mon 89788, by 433 votes to 234, they expressed their dismay at what can be called a strong reaction from the european commission on this matter. how else to describe the decision taken unilaterally on 18 november 2015 in the absence of the support of a qualified majority of member states and now without the approval of the parliament representing the european citizens! it is true that, in the absence of a veto, the objection voted by 433 meps from all political groups has no effect on the commission's discretion to authorize on a case-by-case basis, today soybeans and tomorrow genetically modified maize, cotton, rapeseed or sugar beet. but this political pressure is not in vain. it shows that the european parliament is more than ever waiting for a change in the procedure for authorising gmos, as the president-designate jean-claude juncker promised 18 months ago. and there is still one more joker in the game of the meps: to use article 225 of the treaty which gives them a right of legislative initiative.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon i voted for the european commission not to allow the use of three genetically modified soya beans that tolerate glyphosate in food and feed products. glyphosate is a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the world health organisation (who) since 20 march 2015. the three genetically modified soya beans that have already been authorised by the european commission in food and feed products are fg72, mon 87708 x mon 89788 and mon 87705 x mon 89788. in the vote today i supported each of the three objections which call for their rejection.
in writing. - no, you won't. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. our objective is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests. the european consumer must not be the guinea pig of the multinationals!!!
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to accepting the genetically modified soybean. we must rely on science and our european food safety authority. they believe this crop is safe. with a growing population and increasing climate threats, we need modern plant breeding in europe. among other things, these modern techniques for growing crops and other plants can contribute to a better diet for the world's population and a better climate.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, in this resolution, rejects a commission decision to allow glyphosate-tolerant gm soybeans to be used throughout the eu. in view of the fact that the plant protection product glyphosate in particular has been classified as a possible carcinogen by the world health organisation and that i am opposed to gmo food in general because of the unknown long-term effects, i fully support this resolution.
in writing. – i believe in science-based policy; to this extent i believe that it is the task of the european food safety authority (efsa) to decide whether a genetically modified organism is safe and fit for consumption. the efsa advice should be the basis for the final decision. since the efsa advice was positive, i voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection of the european parliament's committee on the environment against three european commission decisions authorising the marketing of feed containing gm soybeans produced by monsanto and bayer. these three gm soybeans have the unique ability to develop tolerance to herbicides containing glyphosate, including monsanto's roundup, a substance classified as a probable carcinogen by the world health organization. considers that the three authorisation decisions are not compatible with the european union's objectives in the field of human and animal health, as defined in legislative texts. that is why i welcome today's vote and the clear majority in the european parliament to veto the marketing of gm soy products.
in writing. the reasons why the european food safety authority (efsa) does not agree with the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) opinion that glyphosate is genotoxic and could be a "probable" cause of cancer in humans are questionable. this is because these two bodies have a different approach to the classification of chemicals. the eu system evaluates each individual chemical substance and each commercial mixture separately. the iarc assesses generic agents, including related chemical groups, as well as occupational or environmental exposure, and cultural or behavioural practices. in the context of gmos, a precautionary and science-based approach is required.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted by 201 votes to one against the placing on the market of mon 87705 x mon 89788 soybeans. behind this series of numbers is a glyphosate-tolerant gmo. however, this active substance, which is found in commercial products such as the weed killer roundup, was classified as a 'probable carcinogen' for humans on 20 march 2015 by the world health organisation. and more specifically, by his international cancer research center. the scientific battle is still as fierce, however, as the european food safety authority recently considered the risk posed by glyphosate unlikely. meps are clearly at odds with efsa on the subject. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms. the political signal from the meps is clear, but in the absence of a veto it has no effect on the commission's discretionary right to authorize genetically modified soybeans, rapeseed or maize on a case-by-case basis. the european parliament must think about changing its strategy.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon i voted for the european commission not to allow the use of three genetically modified soya beans that tolerate glyphosate in food and feed products. glyphosate is a herbicide classified as a 'probable carcinogen' by the world health organisation (who) since 20 march 2015. the three genetically modified soya beans that have already been authorised by the european commission in food and feed products are fg72, mon 87708 x mon 89788 and mon 87705 x mon 89788. in the vote today i supported each of the three objections which call for their rejection.
in writing. - no, you won't. the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. our objective is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests. the european consumer must not be the guinea pig of the multinationals!!!
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to accepting the genetically modified soybean. we must rely on science and our european food safety authority. they believe this crop is safe. with a growing population and increasing climate threats, we need modern plant breeding in europe. among other things, these modern techniques for growing crops and other plants can contribute to a better diet for the world's population and a better climate.
the emissions from cars, especially those of particulate matter and nitrogen, are particularly harmful to public health. the recent environmental performance index from yale and columbia universities in the united states shows that belgium scores particularly poorly on air pollution. every year, 12 000 people die prematurely, mainly from particulate matter. in flanders, the flemish government is making efforts to tackle this problem by greening the auto taxation system. a low-emission zone is being developed in the city of antwerp. however, more european action is needed, as the eu's strict legislation to limit harmful emissions has not yet led to much improvement in practice, mainly because of the lack of practical tests to measure real emissions on the road. we need to get those field tests done as soon as possible. however, linking these to a relaxation of the euro 6 standard is unacceptable. a better agreement is necessary and technically feasible. there are european engines that meet the euro 6 standard of 80 milligrams of nitrogen per kilometer. encouraging that innovation is essential and for those reasons i supported the objection.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. millions of consumers have been deceived by false information about the emissions of their vehicles. companies must take full responsibility for their actions and cooperate fully with investigations by the authorities. the consumer should be able to exercise his full right of redress. at the same time, reliable and independent tests must be developed. my party, like everyone else, is in favour of continuing to enforce the agreed standards. the commission proposal does not relax the standards. they're just gonna stay what they are. it is simply a different timeframe, with a very temporary exceedance of standards, for the industry to get back on its feet. the commission's proposal to make it appear that today's industry can be completely regulated tomorrow could represent a serious threat to the european car industry, which is in serious trouble, on the world market. the high-tech and sustainable vehicle industry, with many tens of thousands of employees in hundreds of companies, accounts for about 10% of industrial employment in flanders. our party is not prepared to make this sector a casualty of the left-wing ecological blackmail of the european parliament. the flemish belang has always been at the forefront of the fight against fine dust by promoting cng (compressed natural gas) in our country.
in writing. ‒ the present objection is directed against a decision of the european commission and the member states which provides that in future the measurement of vehicle exhaust gas values will no longer be carried out in the laboratory but also in road traffic. instead of allowing the original 50% exceedance of the applicable limits, deviations of more than twice that amount (a correction factor of 2,1) were agreed until 2020. the majority of the environment committee in the european parliament then considered that correction factor too generous and put this objection to the vote in plenary. i have agreed to this objection because i am in favour of strict and clear emission standards and appropriate controls to protect consumer health and the environment. the automotive industry should also learn that it too has to follow established rules, which in turn can create a surge of innovation that drives our economy forward.
in writing. – when legislation is passed, it also has to be implemented and enforced. car companies have already had seven years to make the necessary adjustments to comply with regulations regarding emissions. i deplore the loose rules that are adopted now, which enables cars to pollute even more. i agree that a certain margin of error in the testing methods could be considered, but the proposed conformity factors are excessive. in many european cities european citizens suffer from bad air quality due to the exhaust from diesel cars. that is why i voted in favour of this objection.
in writing. ‒ i regret that the european parliament has today decided not to veto the increase in the nitrogen oxide emission ceilings proposed by the commission. i personally voted in favour of the objection tabled by the committee on the environment. i regret to say that this objection was rejected by a majority of members (323 votes to 317). a few weeks after the vw scandal, i think this vote is deeply regrettable because it not only allows the car industry to exceed the european anti-pollution standards (euro 6) by 110% until 2019 and by 50% from january 2020, but it also gives a legal basis to this difficult to understand relaxation.
in writing. it is regrettable that parliament has not rejected the commission's proposal on the relaxation of the emission standards for diesel vehicles. the commission has made a bad turn with its proposal. diesel cars will be given the commission's fiat to emit twice the legal limit of nox over the next few years. that's the wrong signal. the diesel scandal has undermined consumer confidence in europe and the us. car owners find that manufacturers deliberately flout environmental laws and market cars that pollute far more than they want the customer and the legislator to believe. that is why i expected the commission to come up with a clear and ambitious proposal. the air quality in many of our european cities is still of inferior quality. a correct application of the 80 mg/km standard would have resulted in pure profit. engines are becoming less polluting, the air quality in our cities is improving and people's health is improving. in the us still a huge potential growth market for the european automotive industry there is an emission standard of 43 mg/km. what is preventing the commission and the automobile industry from pursuing ambitious standards?
in writing. ‒ on wednesday, the european parliament rejected an objection to an increase in the maximum limits for nitrogen oxides (nox) emitted by diesel cars. i personally supported this objection, as i had done in the vote in the committee on the environment last december. the commission's resignation is a real sign of pressure from certain member states, which, more concerned with the interests of car manufacturers than the health of millions of europeans, proposed at a technical committee last october that the euro 6 emission standards, which they themselves had negotiated with parliament in 2007, be exceeded by 110% in 2017 and then by 50% from 2020. it was precisely to reject this absurd initiative that parliament had to decide: it was 59 votes short of rejecting this highly political decision, which is difficult to understand, especially since it is part of the wake of the vw engine rigging scandal. finally, the very existence of the euro 6 standard is called into question: what good is a standard that is allowed to be exceeded, or worse, cast in bronze?
in writing. ‒ this objection by the european parliament to block a decision by the european commission to accept nitrogen oxide standards up to 110% higher than what is allowed by european legislation (euro 6) was unfortunately rejected this afternoon. i regret its rejection because it was in particular a response to the pressure exerted by the european parliament after the volkswagen scandal. the objection, raised by the european parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety, considered the commission's decision to be illegal, a view which was further confirmed by the european parliament's legal services and then by the parliament's committee on legal affairs. this decision was drawn up by experts from the commission and the member states. it found that car manufacturers did not appear to be able to meet the emission standards for nitrogen oxides set out in the euro 6 standard and allowed them to exceed those emission standards for nitrogen oxides by 110% until 2019 and by 50% from january 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection concerning emissions from passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. we cannot accept the commission's proposal which finally allowed people to pollute freely until 2021 and which distorted the european parliament's positions on the matter.
in writing. ‒ i very much regret that the european parliament this week approved this relaxation of the rules on car emissions. this is bad news for our public health and our cities in the first place. it is also a slap in the face to the european consumer. the european car industry has been too permissive for too long, and we are now legalising its scams on the market. i find this completely unacceptable. as a democrat, i regret to have to accept the outcome of the vote on this objection, even though i strongly disagree with it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the tisa resolution because despite the positive declarations of intent contained in it it contains clauses which would make it difficult for our children in the future to take corrective action in the event of fears arising (so-called lock-in and suspension clauses). in general, free trade agreements (similar to ceta and ttip) should be more concerned with the pros and cons: the potential jobs to be created (pros) on the one hand and the potential losses in quality, price increases and missed investments (cons) on the other, which should not be equated in the debates. the european legislator should analyse past liberalisations and privatisations in detail, both what was originally promised and what was not, in order to enable policy-makers to make the best possible decisions for the benefit of the citizens.
in writing. – i voted in favour because i believe we need an ambitious agreement on trade in services. services are an ever-growing part of our economy, and using the potential of more easily providing services in these third countries can considerably strengthen the various european services sectors. i also want to stress the importance of fair market access and rules for the digital economy stressing the openness of internet governance.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the recommendations made by the european parliament in the context of the agreement currently being negotiated between 23 wto members. in principle and in general terms, i am in favour of liberalising trade in services. it is in our interest to seek to increase the opportunities for european companies to provide services such as transport and telecommunications in third countries. i have no problem with the negotiations on this agreement. at this stage of the procedure, however, i think it is essential to recall the need to ensure that this agreement will not prevent the eu and member state authorities from legislating in the public interest, in particular as regards labour rights and data protection. i do not want tisa to jeopardise our public services, our culture, our labour laws, our environmental standards, our consumer protection and our data. in my view, neither tisa, nor ttip, nor any other trade agreement should infringe our sovereign right to set our own standards. if that were the case, i would not approve this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the eu is currently the world's largest exporter of services. the services sector plays an increasingly important role in the world economy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreement. the overall report provides sufficiently balanced recommendations with a call for an ambitious agreement. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the ten-t and the related programmes, in particular through the development of a european strategy for the promotion of the ten-t and the european strategy for the development of the ten-t. for smes, it should remove the (financial) barriers that currently prevent them from exploring foreign markets. the nva delegation also agrees with the recommendations not to touch sensitive sectors such as public services, audiovisual services or personal data protection during the tisa negotiations and endorses the "right to regulate" of public authorities. it also seeks to ensure sufficient transparency to ensure that the agreement is properly supported by society. we believe that tisa will be crucial for the future in creating growth and jobs in the european economy.
in writing. i welcome the ep's positive opinion on the report containing our recommendations to the negotiators of the agreement on trade in services. this agreement, negotiated between wto partners, which represents 70% of world trade in services, offers opportunities and gains for our companies. but it must take account of the concerns of european citizens, particularly with regard to respect for fundamental rights and our social and cultural model. this is why our recommendations both contain blue lines, in particular highlighting the importance of reciprocity of market access; the commission has also drawn up a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. in adopting this report, we are calling on the commission to follow our red and blue lines in the further negotiations of the agreement, so that we can reap all the benefits of the agreement while protecting our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i finally voted in favour of viviane reding's report on tisa, which will obviously have to be reworked before the european parliament gives its approval to the final text in the coming months. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. 23 wto members, including the eu, are involved and together account for 70% of world trade in services. the positive aspect is that the members of the inta committee were able to come together around broad compromises and avoid the pitfalls of the bolkestein directive. a text on services in the eu which, before its adoption in 2006, had been demonized by a majority of the european left. the negative point is that the recommendation adopted this afternoon is a text that covers all the issues. as a liberal, i am also opposed to certain paragraphs of article 1 (c) v. which seek to oppose the us proposals on the circulation of information. the first is the introduction of a safeguard clause to prevent companies from hindering the right to take trade union action. the right to work is as important as the right to strike!
in writing. ‒ i would like to welcome the compromise reached by the rapporteur, mrs viviane reding, in particular the rejection of status quo and cliquet clauses and even the safeguards proposed by foreign companies in the field of data protection. however, i abstained from voting. some red lines are missing. public services and services to the general public are excluded from the scope of the negotiations, but there is still a lack of clarity on their definition at european level, which undermines the restriction. let us be cautious about this type of negotiation and its impact. to date, there is no guarantee that tisa will enforce compliance with the collective agreements of the international labour organisation (ilo). i am also against the principle of the 'negative list' introduced by tisa: only those sectors explicitly mentioned in the agreements will not be liberalized. parliament has given its green light ; i saw an orange light. i will continue to ensure that the essential elements of the agreement are respected.
in writing. - i abstained on the vote on the sca. the european union's trade and investment policies are closely linked to the union's development policies and have an impact on developing countries, but the idea of liberalising services opens a pandora's box that is harmful to citizens and workers. i would like to stress, however, the excellent work of the european socialists in this resolution; they have greatly improved it in terms of quality and humanity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which contains the recommendations to the negotiators of the agreement on trade in services. the agreement is being negotiated between the wto partners, which together account for 70% of trade in services. the european parliament has succeeded in making recommendations which reconcile both business interests and consumer interests.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report to urge the european commission to present a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights. the eu has long played a major role in improving equality for all its citizens, but much remains to be done. i note that commissioner jourová has repeatedly committed herself to delivering a new strategy and has spared no effort in mediating with the council in the negotiations on the directive on the representation of women on boards. i note her efforts to bring back the issue of maternity leave by taking a broader approach to work-life balance. unfortunately, i have to say that so far the commission has not taken this matter very seriously. this topic deserves more than a mere internal working document. in voting on this report, i therefore encourage all the political groups in the european parliament to join forces in the fight for a firm and clearly necessary strategy for women's rights and equality in the eu.
in writing. gender equality is one of the fundamental values of the european union, deeply rooted in our society. as the five-year programme draws to a close, it seems to me essential to promote a new strategy for gender equality beyond 2015. the commission must immediately start to specify the concrete objectives of the measures to be taken in the future and to establish the budget allocated to them with a view to addressing the remaining inequalities between women and men within the union. as you know, my fight to combat violence against women calls for a communication on a new strategy for 2016-2020 that can respond inclusively to the challenges of tomorrow. i'm in favor of having a summit dedicated to gender equality.
in writing. ‒ the european commission must present without delay a communication on a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights for the period 2016-2020 and deliver on its commitments. that is the content of the resolution i have supported today. the new communication from the european commission will have to address the issues of gender equality, while being in line with the agenda set at international level, the text adds. in my view, the commission's previous strategy (2010-2015) was indeed not comprehensive enough to contribute to gender equality at european and international level.
in writing. ‒ i support the various points raised in this resolution as a member of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. it is regrettable that the commission work programme for 2016, published in november 2015, does not make any specific reference to the union's post-2015 gender equality strategy.
in writing. ‒ i call on the commission to come up with a new strategy for gender equality and women's rights post-2015. i regret that the commission does not take this matter seriously. gender equality is one of the core values of the european union and much remains to be done to strengthen women's rights. it is therefore particularly disappointing to note that the european commission considers that gender equality merits only a working document and not a comprehensive strategy. that is why i abstained on this point.
the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. it's a beautiful world, europe, we could almost say. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mrs ulrike lunacek, very much. we are in a good mood, mrs lunacek, we can work with all our colleagues and the result does indeed take account of the latest developments. the talks of 27 january show that both sides are serious about seeking a rapprochement. we have therefore tabled an additional amendment to that effect. if it goes well, it's okay to say it. we are adopting a very important resolution today, ladies and gentlemen, a few months after the conclusion of the association agreement. we're seeing some progress. we can hope. it is only 15 years ago, ladies and gentlemen, that i stood on the border between kosovo and serbia. where we have student exchanges now, there were hostilities exchanged then. kosovo has made a great deal of effort in the past year. they even passed a law on gender equality and developed a vision, something that we cannot even say today about our european commission. but of course there are still a number of points of concern: freedom of the press, the fight against corruption. president, we are living in a time when many states in the eu are reacting with a vengeance to the refugee crisis and closing their borders. a time when refugee children - and i emphasized this very strongly yesterday - are wandering without their parents - 10 000 children are missing - and falling victim to human traffickers. it's also a time when people are just looking for a better future. kosovo is our partner in this and we must help them. the commission considers that there is a possibility of visa liberalisation if all the conditions are met. we will therefore debate the status of kosovo as a safe country in the future. the alde group will be very pleased to vote in favour of this resolution.
the debates on libya are somewhat repetitive in this hemisphere. every time we say: time is running out for libya. meanwhile, we see anarchy, porous borders, human smugglers, long lines of desperate refugees: a win-win for the is. and while the islamic state is slowly losing ground in iraq and syria, it's gaining ground in libya. along the southern mediterranean coast, just 300 kilometres from the european union, is is building a bridgehead, a direct threat to stability and security in europe. from the drums of people from sudan, nigeria and chad, isis recruits its army from the poor. we are running out of time. we're out of time. without a secure and stable libya, there is no security for the region and for the eu. a legitimate, inclusive libyan government is a first condition. and then an international peacekeeping mission can help stabilize the country - hopefully with the support of the arab league and the african union - and we are planning a step forward this time too. reconstruction must be an integral part of such an intervention.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, in europe, one in three women is, has been or will be a victim of violence, and this violence is, in the vast majority of cases, the work of a spouse, a friend or a family member, not necessarily a migrant. in 2014, 13 million women were victims of verified acts of violence. in 2014, we were far from a migration crisis. no, violence against women in europe didn't wait for migrants to strike. we in the s&d group believe that all women who are victims of violence must be defended and all perpetrators prosecuted, regardless of their origin, class or religion. what happened in cologne and we said is regrettable. the perpetrators must be identified and prosecuted, but a racist approach will not solve the problem of violence against women, either in public or in private. we must defend a fundamental approach, methods to fight against stereotypes, against preconceived ideas, such as: a dominant man, a dominated woman; an independent man, a dependent woman; a strong man, a weak woman; an active man, a passive woman. one only has to look at the commercials in europe today, which are not made by qatari agencies, to see how much these stereotypes are embedded in our european culture. this debate shows once again that emotion kills reason. i therefore call on the commission to do substantive, long-term work, such as the strategy we voted this morning on for equality between men and women.
the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. i was there myself on a tour a few months before the russian annexation. a jewel on the black sea is now a peninsula of fear. since the illegal annexation, the methods of putin's russia have been used without scruple. we know what that means for the human rights situation. the attitude of the authorities is: "please", "shut up" or "get out". dissenting voices are suppressed and persecuted. journalists and pro-ukrainian activists are barred and the tatar community in particular is targeted. their media are restricted, their mosques and cultural centres are harassed and, worse, they are the targets of kidnappings, murders and torture. what a shame! history repeats itself for this proud people. the delegation from the council of europe is not a day early. it will be crucial to seek full cooperation from russia on the final conclusions of their report.
in writing. ‒ in its joint resolution, parliament underlines serbia's continued commitment to the integration process. parliament stressed the economic reforms undertaken, but called on serbia to align its foreign and security policy with that of the union, including with regard to russia, and noted that political interference remained high in the judiciary. it also called for a stronger fight against the high levels of corruption and organised crime. it stressed the need to strengthen parliament's control of the executive and the importance of civil society action. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region.
in writing. in 2003, the european council envisaged the accession of the countries of the western balkans. ten years later, the same european council effectively opened negotiations for serbia's accession. the annual progress report is the parliament's assessment of the progress made by the candidate country. it is important to note that serbia has already started preparing action plans for the reforms to be implemented in the areas of justice, the judiciary and security. it is therefore appropriate to open those chapters in 2016 while at the same time insisting on the respect of fundamental freedoms such as freedom of the press. the budget deficit has been reduced and progress has been made in the organisation of the labour market, although it must be said that significant efforts remain to improve the investment and business climate in serbia. the waste management in serbia remains a sensitive issue and therefore it is recommended that serbia clean up the thousands of illegal landfills and effectively implement a sustainable waste policy. the accession of serbia also depends on relations with kosovo. it is hopeful that important steps have been taken towards the normalisation of these relations.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on serbia, which was adopted by 498 votes to 66, with 70 abstentions, and which welcomes the opening of negotiations for accession to the european union. i have, however, supported the country's efforts to pursue its systematic reforms, to ensure that the work of judges and prosecutors, as well as the media, is free from political interference, and to step up its efforts to fight corruption and organised crime.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. i welcome the opening of negotiations and chapter 32 at the intergovernmental conference in brussels on 14 december 2015 and serbia's continued commitment to the european integration process. serbia must take action to make this strategic decision known to the serbian population. the country must also take a firm stand against systemic reforms and pay particular attention to its young people in implementing these reforms!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i am in favour of further integration of serbia into the european family. it is important that serbia continues its ambitious reforms to strengthen the rule of law, further combat corruption and significantly improve the daily lives of serbs.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this joint resolution which underlines the importance of the stabilisation and association agreement concluded between the union and kosovo. it will allow for enhanced cooperation in terms of political dialogue and economic exchanges, but should also contribute to the stabilisation of the region. parliament also welcomed the progress made in 2015 in the conclusion of agreements in the process of normalising relations between kosovo and serbia and called on the commission to maintain its support for reforms and cooperation in the western balkans. it stressed the importance of parliamentary work in implementing the reforms and called on all political actors to resume a constructive dialogue in order to reach a solution and on the government to respect parliament's resolutions. parliament also welcomed the adoption of the law on protection against discrimination and on gender equality, but stressed its concerns about hate speech against lgbti people, the lack of progress in freedom of expression and the media, and the lack of any significant progress in the fight against major corruption and organised crime.
in writing. i welcome the progress made in kosovo through a series of reforms implemented by the government, notably with regard to the process of normalisation of relations between pristina and belgrade. in 2013, the authorities of serbia and kosovo reached a first comprehensive agreement to improve their relations in a lasting way. the roadmap signed in may of that year by the two prime ministers to implement this historic agreement was a major turning point for both countries. every step in this direction is a step towards stability for the whole region. however, there is still work to be done, particularly in the areas of media freedom, the independence of the judiciary, good governance, etc. the european union must continue to give its full support to the balkan countries if it is to prevent this region from becoming a grey area, the soft underbelly of europe, where particularly well-connected jihadist propaganda and recruitment networks can flourish.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the resolution on kosovo, which was adopted this afternoon by 403 votes to 130, with 104 abstentions. the text of the resolution stresses that the eu-kosovo association agreement paves the way for kosovo's integration into the european union. however, i have supported efforts (and still to be made) in the areas of media and judicial independence, the fight against high-level corruption and organised crime, and labour market reforms, which are just some of the areas of great concern.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. however, i would like to recall that it is important that kosovo and serbia find durable solutions for refugees, in line with the conclusions of the united nations refugee agency (unhcr) in this regard and in line with the 2014 report of the un special rapporteur on the human rights of internally displaced persons in kosovo.
in writing. ‒ for the liberal group in the ep, i am the one responsible for kosovo (alde coordinator). i voted in favour of this report because i am a strong supporter of kosovo's european integration process. the kosovo authorities should implement the necessary reforms to strengthen the rule of law, further strengthen the fight against corruption and implement structural economic reforms to combat the high unemployment rate. this will benefit first of all the kosovars themselves, but ultimately the whole region and, by extension, the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this joint resolution which welcomes the libyan political agreement signed on 17 december 2015 with the united nations and calls on the house of representatives to compromise and continue the debate with a view to the approval of the government of national unity, in accordance with the libyan political agreement. this is in line with the will to take the country on the path of peace and stability and to defend all free citizens. the european union, like the entire international community, must spare no effort to put an end to the violence and stabilise the region.
in writing. after the turmoil in tunisia in 2010, the arab spring swept over to libya, which was followed by a nine-month civil conflict. since then, the country has been in a state of total disintegration. terrorist organisations such as daesh, ansar al-sharia and al-qaeda have taken advantage of the political vacuum to make libya an additional home and base and, like daesh, to gain control of the immense oil reserves with the aim of financing their war chest. the human rights situation in the country is deteriorating. executions, torture and violence against journalists and officials are part of the practices of all parties to the conflict. meanwhile, libya has become a haven and transit country for human traffickers. in the interests of the country, the region and europe, it is absolutely necessary that libya becomes a secure and politically stable country. in this joint resolution, parliament calls on the two main libyan institutions to implement the political agreement reached last year. parliament is also sending a signal that it supports a government of national unity. a final guarantee of a stable political climate is only possible if an international coalition fights the growing presence of daesh in libya.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution put to the vote this afternoon, which calls on the eu and the international community to stand ready to support the libyan people's efforts to implement the libyan political agreement. signed on 17 december 2015, this agreement supports the newly established government of national accord and national institutions, which are to guide libya through its post-revolution transition and put it back on the path to building a democratic, peaceful, stable and prosperous country. the european parliament also calls for continued humanitarian, financial and political assistance from the union and the international community to address the humanitarian situation in libya, the plight of displaced persons and refugees and the plight of civilians whose access to basic services is severely disrupted.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution. i deeply regret that the first cabinet proposed by the presidential council was rejected by the house of representatives but at the same time welcomes the endorsement in principle of the political agreement; strongly condemns the abduction of house of representatives mp mohamed al-ra’id and calls on all influential actors to spare no effort to ensure his immediate and unconditional release; opposes any strategy put in place by any actor to undermine or slow down the political process leading to the creation of a new government of national accord.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that urgent action is needed in libya. the security situation, the humanitarian and economic situation in libya at the moment is absolutely terrible. isis is taking advantage of this and gaining ground every day. there is a risk that such disorders will affect the whole sahel region in the long term. this would pose a serious risk to the security of our entire european union. we therefore urge the commission and the international community to support the libyan political agreement and the un-led talks and to urge all parties to work together in the interests of libyan national unity.
in writing. ‒ the economic and banking crisis has reduced public investment by more than 20%, and austerity policies have had a very negative socioeconomic impact on disadvantaged regions, especially the islands. the joint resolution, which i have approved, therefore calls on the commission to identify the handicaps and strengths of these island regions in order to take appropriate measures to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. the island regions are groups of islands within the eu that share common characteristics such as permanent nature, cultural diversity, environmental diversity. they have been hit hard by the economic and migration crises and have become particularly vulnerable. the economic, social and environmental gaps should therefore be closed in order to ensure their development, in particular by fully exploiting their high potential for the production of renewable energy. reducing the gap between these regions means not only supporting agriculture, livestock and fisheries, which are major sectors for island economies, but also strengthening connectivity by improving sea routes, port access and air transport services. the project submitted to us will improve economic growth, job creation and sustainable development; the european union is a global economy, with a global economic system.
in writing. ‒ yesterday we voted a resolution on island regions to draw the attention of the european commission to the specificities and handicaps faced by europe's islands. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it to make their own decisions. in this context, we have asked the commission: - to define clearly the type of permanent natural or demographic handicaps referred to in article 174; - to identify the specific instruments and means of cohesion policy to correct the handicaps of insularity; - to clarify the means it intends to use to verify compliance with the conditions referred to in article 174; - to take into account indicators other than gdp, which would take into account the specificities of island regions, such as the regional competitiveness index.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the commission must now clearly define the permanent geographical, natural and demographic handicaps referred to in article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) which are likely to affect island regions. it must also indicate how it intends to apply the terms of article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union in the light of the permanent handicaps which hamper the natural development of island regions and prevent them from striving for economic, social and territorial cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which sets out the european parliament's priorities on the specific characteristics and features of island regions and the implications of these specific characteristics and features for these islands. some of these characteristics should be recognised as permanent disabilities and should receive tailor-made treatment from the european commission.
in writing. ‒ as a representative of a border region, i can tell you from experience that local and regional authorities are close to the needs of the people. this ensures that projects are implemented with meaningful objectives and that controls can be simplified. municipalities and regions often rely on european funds to finance their projects. in many countries, investment by municipalities accounts for the lion's share of total investment. in my home country of belgium, the figure is as high as 40 percent. the municipalities contribute only 5% of the total debt. in view of the so-called sec standards, which represent a major challenge for many municipalities, the commission and the investment bank must propose concrete and practicable solutions to the local authorities in order to continue to facilitate investment. in the case of crossborder projects, too, municipalities and regions often play a pioneering role. we must continue to encourage them to do so, rather than preventing them by excessive bureaucracy.
in writing. ‒ i naturally supported this resolution which underlines the important role that local and regional authorities play in the management of the esi funds and in eu policies in general. for example, my municipality of farciennes is obviously involved in both the definition and the management of the important european projects deployed in its territory and which are vital for its revitalization.
in writing. the union's cohesion policy remains, for the 2014-2020 programming period, the main investment instrument covering all regions of the european union. local and regional authorities have a central role in the design and implementation of eu strategies. this type of governance at all levels must therefore be encouraged. it is by being as close as possible to the citizens that we can best identify their needs, whether economic or social. the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental to help social progress, sustainable development and economic growth. of course, the local and regional authorities must be given sufficient resources. i believe that a public consultation on multi-level governance would be one of the tools to best identify their needs in order to strengthen their capacity and efficiency.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, we voted with a show of hands a resolution to strengthen the role of local and regional authorities in the management of the european structural and investment funds for 2014-2020, but which also asks the commission to launch a public consultation - followed by a possible initiative - to reflect on the means available to enable such a strengthening.
in writing. – i am in favour of this resolution. i am also in favour of synergies and complementarity between the esi funds and other eu programmes, in which local and regional authorities can play a useful role in attaining the objectives of cohesion policy. the european parliament stresses, however, that any reprogramming of esi funds should be done in accordance with cpr rules and that new initiatives should not weaken the core of the esi funds. we point to the reinforced partnership principle and the european code of conduct on partnership, which set out the legal involvement of local and regional authorities and provide for minimum requirements for their involvement in all phases of the preparation and implementation of operational programmes; recognise that, although local and regional authorities were consulted in most cases during the negotiations on the partnership agreements and operational programmes, their involvement did not amount to full partnership; urge the member states, therefore, to fully comply with these requirements and increase efforts to address deficiencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which contains a series of recommendations on the role of regional and local authorities in the european structural and investment funds. local and regional authorities play a crucial role in shaping and implementing european strategies and policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ i am extremely concerned about the alarming deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen: the risk of famine, indiscriminate attacks on civilians, medical personnel and humanitarian workers, the destruction of civilian and medical infrastructure as a result of the intensification of airstrikes, ground fighting and artillery fire. more than 2.51 million yemenis have been internally displaced. 21.1 million people, or 80% of the population, are in need of protection or humanitarian assistance in one form or another. more than 2.2 million children are suffering or at risk of malnutrition. in the face of this alarming situation, i support the call for coordinated humanitarian action under the auspices of the un, a contribution from all countries to meet the humanitarian needs of yemen and to allow access to emergency aid for the population.
in writing. ‒ failing to pursue a political path of cohesion, yemen has become entangled in intensifying tribal tensions and a violent war between iran-backed houthi rebels and saudi arabia, which is waging a military campaign against the rebels that is plunging the entire region directly into a complex conflict that has been going on for several months. meanwhile, saudi arabia sees houthi rebels in yemen as an iranian proxy force, while iran has condemned the saudi-led offensive and called for an immediate halt to its airstrikes. parliament expressed its deep concern at the violence currently raging in yemen and the resulting humanitarian crisis affecting millions of innocent children, women and men. it deplores the loss of life caused by the conflict and the suffering of those caught up in the fighting.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this joint resolution which condemns all the crimes of the islamic state group, which amount to crimes against humanity and war crimes, and which stresses that the islamic state group is committing genocide against christians and yazidis as well as other religious and ethnic minorities who do not share its interpretation of islam.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. i am extremely concerned about the fact that daesh systematically exterminates religious and ethnic minorities who reject its interpretation of islam in the areas under its control, in particular christian communities (chaldean/syrian/assyrian, melkite, armenian), yazidi, turkmen, shiite, chabaks, sabae, kaka'e and sunni. these communities have the right to live in their native lands with dignity, on an equal basis and in safety, and to practice their religion freely. the competent authorities of countries which, directly or indirectly, support the crimes of this terrorist group, cooperate in its crimes, finance them or are complicit in them, must be required to put an end to these unacceptable acts. finally, it is essential that member states actively combat radicalisation in order to prevent their nationals and citizens from joining the ranks of daesh.
in writing. i am relieved that the ep has had the political courage to vote for a resolution which recognises that the islamic state is guilty of the crime of genocide, i.e. crimes 'committed with the intention of destroying, in whole or in part, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group'; by calling the low-level, despicable crimes committed by daesh in iraq and syria genocide, the international community is being forced to take all necessary measures to ensure the protection of the targeted communities, namely "christians, yazidis and other religious and ethnic minorities", including the prosecution of the perpetrators in order to bring them to justice and to punish them. i believe that the members of the un security council must immediately recognize the genocide and refer the matter to the international criminal court to investigate these crimes against humanity and war crimes. history will judge us not only for our actions, but also for our silence.
in writing. ‒ the resolution i voted for this afternoon calls on the international community to take urgent action to counter the systematic slaughter of religious minorities by the islamic state group. the text reiterates the strong condemnation of is/daesh and its flagrant violations of human rights, deliberately targeting christians, yazidis, turkmen, shiites, shabak, sabaeans, kaka'e and sunnis who do not agree with their interpretation of islam. these violations amount to "war crimes", "crimes against humanity" and "genocide", according to the rome statute of the international criminal court (icc). the resolution calls on the european union to appoint a permanent special representative for freedom of religion or belief and urges all countries in the international community to prevent war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide on their territories. all member states of the union should update their legal and judicial systems to prevent their nationals and citizens travelling abroad from joining is/da'esh and other terrorist organisations, and also ensure that if they do so, they are subject to criminal proceedings as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ we strongly condemn the serious and multiple violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law by all parties to the current conflicts in iraq and syria. furthermore, the widespread and massive atrocities committed by daesh, including its deliberate targeting of religious and ethnic communities in the territories under its control, must be condemned. finally, parliament condemned in the strongest terms the destruction of religious and cultural sites and symbols by daesh, which constitutes an attack on the cultural heritage of all the peoples of syria and iraq and of humanity in general. calls on all states to intensify their criminal investigations and judicial cooperation with a view to identifying all groups involved in the illicit trafficking of cultural property and the damage or destruction of cultural heritage belonging to all humanity in syria, iraq and the wider middle east and north africa.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution. i am firmly convinced that everyone is entitled to his fundamental freedoms and to respect for human rights, regardless of religion or ethnicity. it is our duty to support those who are currently being oppressed by the barbarians of is. whether in europe or the middle east, we are always stronger when we work together to fight such terrorist organizations. the european union must now, more than ever, apply diplomatic pressure on the parties concerned to find a solution. ideally, this could happen during the negotiations between the syrian government and the opposition in geneva this month.
mr president, it was nevertheless an interesting question by mr corbett, and i think i can add something: why is mr kamall not [...] (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, further to the question by mr corbett and ms goulard, i am simply wondering, mr fox, why you are now speaking and not mr kamall. i think he is still in doubt and he does not know at the moment what he is going to do, and i think that is a better answer to mr corbett’s question than saying that they should ask the members themselves. but i have another issue, involved in the negotiations from the beginning, mr fox. i have always asked myself why this british deal was so necessary and so vital? i can tell you there is one thing i am sure of: that this deal is not about europe; it is in fact a deal to reunite the tory party. let us be honest about this. i may not know the result of the referendum – whether britain will remain in the union – but i am sure of one result: it will not reunite the tory party. that is clear, because what i am seeing is a glorified cockfight since mr tusk reached this deal, with boris johnson challenging david cameron. i can tell you, i have seen ambitious politicians – i myself am an ambitious politician – but boris johnson takes it to a whole other level. because it is the mayor of london acting against the interests of the citizens of london, and all for personal ambition and certainly not for a better europe or for a better britain. it is totally bonkers, dear colleagues, and i would say it is pathetic that this is happening. it is even dramatic for britain, especially, mr fox. we see that the pound sterling is falling rapidly, the unity of the united kingdom is under threat and their american cousins are saying: ‘please stop it, we will not make a trade deal with you outside the union’. apparently the special relationship between the us and the uk is not so special any more. so let me give some advice to those who are now carrying out this debate in britain. do not think that after a ‘no’ you can come back to the negotiating table. i know that some people are thinking that, saying: ‘ha! it’s europe. once you have said ‘no’ in a referendum you are invited back to the negotiation table as with ireland, as with denmark, like after the constitution with france and the netherlands’. but this is not about the same thing. that was about the constitution – a treaty. here it is about in or out. it is one or the other. and if i see how the currency of britain is endangered, how now britain is alienated from the us and how britain is step by step being transformed into a little england, i think they would be wise to stay in the european union. but, dear colleagues, pathetic as this debate is for the uk, it is also a dramatic debate and an important debate for europe because, let us be honest, what we are discussing now is crazy. we have to unite; we should not be divided. the only ones who will gain from a divided europe are – who? people like vladimir putin, people like bashar al-assad, like is. and instead of discussing how to stand up to them and develop a strategy, what we are showing at the moment is division: we are weak. and yesterday this again became very clear when the russian-american plan for a ceasefire in syria happened and we were again not around the table for such a crucial decision. we can continue now – and some are doing so – to complain about the deal and point out the downsides of the deal. my appeal, mr president, president tusk, and to everybody in this house is to do the opposite. let us use the deal to put europe back on track and to make europe work again. let us finally stop europe à la carte and stop the standstill because of the british issue. mr fox, i have nothing against giving special status to britain if next time you agree also that in the next treaty revision we can also go ahead with our integration. in all these reforms we need to establish a more united europe, because we need it to tackle the multiple crises we are facing today and certainly the refugee crisis. and that is my last point: that we should also do more on the refugee crisis. make as much effort, president tusk, to solve the refugee crisis as we have made to find a solution for brexit. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i cannot see the interest in a finn campaigning for a brexit. i find it more interesting that it is the british people who are deciding and the british politicians who are taking a position, and i can tell you one thing: if there is one party in the uk who is going to fight for britain to remain in the union, it’s going to be the liberal democratic movement, and them alone. (loud applause from alde)
we'll start with the good news in these reports. i think it is indeed wise to reduce the rules and the burden on businesses, and especially smes. but when it comes to the socioeconomic aspects, you are missing the point! in order to get our economy growing again, the government should not spend more money, but rather shrink. you point the finger at countries that are putting their budgets in order, but it is those who are not respecting the budgetary rules that we must tap on the fingers. flexible labour markets should not be dismissed as antisocial, but as a cure for unemployment. my recommendation is to read less paul krugman and paul de grauwe this european semester.
in writing. since the economic crisis of 2008, the european right has been imposing drastic austerity measures on us. it is now almost eight years since these measures were introduced and nothing has changed! the debt of governments continues to rise, the unemployment rate remains at an all-time high, and the gap between rich and poor widenes daily. however, since the beginning of this year we have seen encouraging signs of change and this report is yet another proof of this. for the first time, the european semester report, which sets out the policy guidelines for the year, calls for more investment and a balanced tax policy alongside austerity measures. it also takes account of social problems and suggests ways of solving them. the commission has already made a number of proposals. investment is becoming a priority and we can only be satisfied with that. i can only welcome this change of direction in europe and hope that it will help to revive the european economy and with it growth and employment.
in writing. i invite you to vote in favour of this report on the european semester for economic policy coordination which pays particular attention to employment and social aspects in the context of the annual growth survey 2016. while the economic forecasts for 2016 are encouraging, it is clear that unemployment levels are still very high in the european union, especially among young people. while i am in favour of coordinating economic policies in europe, i am also in favour of better integrating the social objectives of the europe 2020 strategy into the european semester. it is on this basis that we must coordinate economic policies in europe. i would ask you to call in particular for 'a stronger role for the europe 2020 strategy' and for 'social objectives to be reflected equally in all the instruments of the semester, including the country-specific recommendations'. more than ever, we need to coordinate our economic policies to improve the social conditions of all european citizens.
in writing. improve workers' access to services to support labour mobility within the european union and relaunch the european network of employment services (eures). several shortcomings in my view: incomplete pool of job vacancies and cvs on the eures portal; unequal access to the service within the european union; limited ability of the portal to match job vacancies to submitted cvs; insufficient availability of support services; lack of information exchange between member states on labour shortages and surpluses. strengthening eures would make it easier to implement the instruments that the commission is putting in place to promote employment, such as the youth guarantee facility. it does not therefore seem appropriate to raise a reservation under the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, it is true that this free trade agreement is being negotiated in a somewhat particular context. since the revolution of 2011 and even long before, tunisia needs help, and i welcome the agreement on olive oil. i can only marvel at the defense of some of our colleagues here, who are moved by the impact of even those 2% of tunisian olive oil imports on european production, when they are sometimes the best defenders of free trade agreements which could have far more devastating effects on european agriculture. i therefore invite these colleagues to look more closely at what agriculture could lose in this agreement with tunisia. i would like to see us, with this ftaa, making progress in creating quality jobs and sustainable development for tunisia, making sure that this agreement takes account of the differences in competitiveness between economies, and finally, as you said, madam commissioner, making sure that civil society is involved in this agreement, because it has a lot of information to give us. i thank you for your work.
silence is the law. he who is silent about injustice is complicit. and the eu is silent. she is silent in all languages about the turkish violence against the kurds. i am sorry to say that i was disappointed yesterday with the replies of the high representative and the nato boss to my questions on this in the committee on foreign affairs. in syria, erdogan is attacking the kurdish fighters who are fighting for us against isis. just yesterday, the kurds rescued a 16-year-old girl from the clutches of isis. turkey has chosen the wrong enemy. in his own country, erdoğan is destroying kurdish towns and villages. cizre is a ruined city. the violence does not discriminate between men and women, between children and the elderly. people are dying, burned alive, in their basements. the war of the turkish state against its own people is so immoral, so reprehensible, but neither mogherini nor nato boss stoltenberg dare to name the evil and call erdogan to order. if no one else dares to stand up for this people, then we must.
madam president, in june the british people will have to decide whether or not they want to remain in the european union. they have their full place but not at any price. i am concerned to see that the agreement undermines the principle of freedom of movement and will create inequalities and discrimination between european workers. i am also concerned when a government which refuses to adopt the euro intends to impose its will on the management of this area. it is essential that those who want to pursue the project of greater integration should be able to continue to make progress. we must be careful not to open the door to a spiral that would lead other states to ask for further derogations and thus weaken european cohesion. the european union cannot be reduced to a market, to a collection of national egos. the european project is above all about shared values, a vision of solidarity, a human dimension. it's the most important thing.
author. - mr commissioner, thank you for the evaluation report on the philip morris tobacco agreement which we received from you yesterday. we've waited a long time for it, but the 31 pages are in front of us now. i am sorry, commissioner, but i do not think that the evaluation contains sufficient elements to extend the existing agreement. for example, the report states that between 2006 and 2014, the number of cigarettes seized decreased by 85 percent. but is that a good argument? i read in the may 2002 issue of tobacco international that the number of cigarettes confiscated has fallen by a tenth, or 90%, compared with the period under review from 1997 to 1999. was that because of the tobacco deal we made with philip morris? no, because it didn't exist in 2002. this good result was achieved thanks to the european union's leadership in the fight against tobacco smuggling. the european parliament's committee of inquiry was established in 1996-97. there was the good work of the uclaf task force on tobacco and later of olaf. there was the good work of the commission and a number of member states, by bringing a case against philip morris before the courts in new york. all of this has created pressure and a good result, as i read in the trade journal tobacco international. moreover, it is not an amicable agreement that will bring about a good result in the fight against tobacco smuggling, it is a sustained effort. furthermore, 2004 is not 2016. we have now the new tobacco directive, which contains elements on 'tracking and tracing' and which incorporates the amendments tabled by mrs grässle and myself. there is, and you know that very well because you are a strong supporter of the who agreement. there is the ftct protocol, which provides new elements for the global fight against tobacco smuggling. let's not pretend the tobacco industry is our friend. she's an opponent. tobacco producers are bringing legal action against the tobacco directive. they are bringing cases against member states or against states like australia through isds mechanisms. commissioner, let me be clear and plain: i support your efforts to get the who convention and the ftct protocol ratified by as many states as possible, and first and foremost by the 28 member states of the european union. let us make sure that the tobacco directive is properly implemented. let us strive for a good ratification of that who agreement. but if you decide with the commission to continue or extend the existing agreement with philip morris, you will damage the reputation of the who and the european union. because why should other states outside the eu, why should our neighbouring countries sign the who agreement when they see that the eu itself is concluding or extending agreements, such as the one now being proposed with philip morris? commissioner, we have a dialogue today, we have a debate today. on 8 march we shall be voting on a resolution. i ask the commission not to take a decision before parliament's resolution is presented. i think that's just simple courtesy. i would like you to listen to the plenary of parliament as it makes its ruling on 8 march.
in writing. ‒ the 1965 hague convention establishes a system for the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in other signatory states. it applies only to documents intended for or originating in non-eu countries. 26 member states already apply the convention. following the adoption of european legislation on the crossborder service of documents, the union has acquired exclusive external competence in this area. it must therefore authorise the member states concerned to act on its behalf in order to accede to the convention. i have approved this recommendation which is in favour of the accession of austria and malta to the said convention.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 15 november 1965 establishes a system for the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters in other signatory states. this convention applies only to documents intended for or emanating from countries outside the european union. twenty-six of the 28 member states already apply the convention. the two member states which have not yet applied it, namely austria and malta, have expressed their wish to join. since the hague convention of 15 november 1965 has proved its usefulness in relation to the crossborder service of documents and since it is in the interest of both the european union as a whole and the two member states concerned to have a uniform system in this area in their relations with third countries, i voted this afternoon for parliament to give its approval to the decision authorising the accession of austria and malta to the convention.
in writing. ‒ since the hague convention of 15 november 1965 has proved its usefulness as regards the crossborder service of documents and since it is in the interest of both the european union as a whole and the two member states in question to have a uniform system in this field in their relations with third countries, it was proposed that parliament give its consent to the decision authorising the accession of austria and malta to the said convention. it's done now.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is in the interest of both the european union and malta to have a uniform system for the service of documents in crossborder relations with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i naturally voted in favour of the december 2015 agreement between the eu and the republic of san marino on the automatic exchange of financial account information to increase tax cooperation and compliance at international level. this is an important step in the current efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion, as san marino can be considered as a major tax haven. the new agreement provides that the eu and san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents as of 2017. the ultimate aim is to prevent a taxpayer from concealing capital corresponding to income or assets on which tax has not been paid. in particular, san marino will have to comply with the standards foreseen by the oecd in 2014 for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement signed in december 2015 between the eu and san marino to combat tax fraud and evasion. under the agreement (which will enter into force on 1 january 2017), san marino will now apply stricter measures, equivalent to those in place in the eu since march 2014. the agreement is also in line with the 2014 oecd global standard on the automatic exchange of financial account information. the information exchanged will not only relate to income, such as interest and dividends, but also to balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. the tax administrations in the eu member states and in san marino will thus be able to correctly and unequivocally identify the taxpayers concerned, manage and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations, assess the likelihood of tax evasion being perpetrated and avoid unnecessary further investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted this afternoon in favour of the agreement between the european union and san marino, signed in december 2015, to combat tax fraud and evasion. the information exchanged will not only concern income, such as interest and dividends, but also balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. in accordance with the agreement, san marino will apply stricter measures, equivalent to those in place within the eu since march 2014. the agreement is also in line with the 2014 global standard on automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the oecd. in practical terms, tax administrations in eu member states and san marino will be able to: - correctly and unequivocally identify the taxpayers concerned; - manage and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations; - assess the likelihood of tax evasion being perpetrated; - avoid unnecessary new investigations. the agreement shall enter into force on 1 january 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which aims to ensure that the republic of san marino applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the union legal framework, updated in december 2014 (amending the administrative cooperation directive, 'dca2'), and complies with the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts recommended by the 2014 oecd global standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts as this agreement will bring more transparency in tax matters between the eu and san marino.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution which supports the commission's proposal to the council to set a date for the entry into force for croatia of the conventions on the protection of the union's financial interests.
in writing. ‒ the act of accession of the republic of croatia simplified its accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 of the eu treaty (ex-article k.3 of the eu treaty). to this end, the council shall adopt a decision fixing the date of entry into force of these conventions for croatia and shall make all the adaptations made necessary by the accession of the new member state (including, as a minimum, the adoption of the conventions in the croatian language, so that these versions may 'also be authentic'). the council shall act on a recommendation from the commission after consulting the european parliament. the report endorses the commission's recommendation. the european parliament gave its approval this afternoon.
in writing. - i agree with the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 july 1995 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, to the protocol of 27 september 1996 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union, to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, to the protocol of 29 november 1996 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union concerning the interpretation by the court of justice of the european communities of the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests by way of a preliminary ruling, and to the second protocol of 19 june 1997 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on the protection of the european communities' financial interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the union's financial interests, as it is important that croatia, as a new member state, be fully integrated into the existing community acquis and thus become an equal partner in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have advocated the further strengthening and modernisation of eures, the european platform for professional mobility within the eu. eures helps jobseekers to benefit from the freedom of movement within the european union. eures facilitates, among other things, access to job vacancies within the eu. in a border region such as eastern belgium, facilitating cross-border professional mobility is also of great importance. the mobility potential of the eu's working population has not yet been fully exploited. this is where opportunities arise to put more people, especially young people, into work. the portal will therefore in future also list apprenticeships and traineeships.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which aims to improve the european employment services network (eures) in order to improve the information of european citizens on access to job vacancies within the union. the objective of the network, whose portal should be easily accessible to all, should be to contribute to a high rate of quality and sustainable jobs in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of strengthening and modernising eures, the european network of employment services, which aims to facilitate the free movement of workers within the union. the network helps workers overcome obstacles to mobility and improves access to job opportunities across the union. i have already recommended this in my party's european programme: we must encourage professional mobility in europe, in particular through eures. and i am convinced that this strengthened platform will help to promote this mobility within the european union. i am particularly pleased with the role that the social partners will play in this platform. indeed, from the very beginning of the discussions in the committee on employment and social affairs, i supported the idea of an active presence on their part, as i am convinced that their expertise will be of great use to the platform. i am therefore pleased to see that at the end of the legislative process we have succeeded in winning a majority of members to our cause.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation supports the development of an improved european mobility network for jobseekers (eures). combating unemployment is one of the eu's greatest challenges. it is therefore of the utmost importance that existing vacancies are filled to the best of their ability. the eures network therefore works to promote job vacancies across the eu and to match employers and employees in the eu. the nva delegation also welcomes the fact that the subsidiarity principle has been respected. for example, member states have an opt-out option for making vacancies available on the eures portal. they thus have room to develop their own labour market policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which aims to make the eures network an effective tool for any jobseeker or employer interested in labour mobility within the european union by making a large pool of job vacancies and jobseeker profiles across europe accessible and transparent. apprenticeships and traineeships must also be integrated into the european network, provided that a regular employment contract exists.
in writing. ‒ we need to better match job vacancies and jobseekers in the european union. the european parliament therefore wants to modernise the eures database, the european vdab. this database is a good tool to increase labour mobility in the eu and to combat unemployment.
in writing. ‒ following the terrible terrorist attacks that struck tunisia last year, the country is currently experiencing serious economic difficulties. in this context, the commission presented to parliament, at first reading, a sensible proposal for a regulation introducing urgent autonomous trade measures for tunisia. the text introduces a duty-free quota of 35 000 tonnes of virgin olive oil produced entirely in tunisia for 2016 and 2017. however, after half the time, the impact of this trade measure on the olive oil market in the union will also be evaluated. should the commission find that the union market is affected, it may take corrective measures.
in writing. ‒ in order to help tunisia in the wake of the sousse attack last june, this report proposes to offer, as an exceptional and temporary measure, a zero-duty tariff quota of eur 70 000 over two years for exports of olive oil from tunisia to the union, in the form of autonomous trade measures, without increasing the overall volume of imports. a mid-term review of the impact on the union market will be carried out. i approved this report.
in writing. ‒ to help strengthen the economy of tunisia, which was hit by terrorist attacks in 2015, the european parliament today voted on an emergency plan, which i supported, to allow the duty-free import of an additional 70 000 tonnes of its virgin olive oil into the eu in 2016-17. tunisia has come a long way since the arab spring and has been the target of terrorist attacks precisely because it is on the path to consolidating its democracy. these attacks have had a huge impact on the tourism sector and the economy in general at a time when tunisians were already facing a difficult economic crisis, with a high unemployment rate. that is why it is crucial that europe expresses its solidarity with the tunisian people and helps them with concrete measures, such as the one voted on this afternoon, which will immediately and directly stimulate their economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the european union wishes to reaffirm its support by taking concrete action to support tunisia's economic development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help 412 workers who lost their jobs following the closure of two production sites at agc europe sa and saint-gobain glass benelux. the total amount of aid the european union is providing to help these people enter the labour market is more than one million euros.
in writing. ‒ i have of course supported this decision to allocate more than €1 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the socio-professional reintegration of workers who have been made redundant at agc roux and saint gobain glass. the reconversion units implemented in hainaut are obtaining very positive results in the actions carried out with the trade union partners. the egf's support further increases their capacity to act. the egf will also help 100 young people under 25 who are not in education, employment or training (neets) to integrate into the labour market. this will in particular help to intensify our efforts in charleroi to promote employment and thus the future for all.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help 412 workers made redundant following the closure of two glass factories in belgium owned by agc europe sa and saint-gobain glass benelux. the amount of money provided by the european union to help these people get back to work is over €1 million. i am glad that the european parliament has decided to provide funds to help belgian workers get back on their feet, but i can only deplore the fact that there are more plant closures in a historic sector in wallonia. i cannot say this enough: industry must be at the heart of our concerns. a strong industrial base is, in my view, a necessary condition for strengthening the whole economic fabric and for creating many jobs in europe. i am also pleased to see that the european globalisation adjustment fund will help 100 young people who are unemployed, out of school and without training to be better prepared to enter the labour market.
in writing. ‒ it is only natural that europe has made its contribution to help workers. in recent years, trade in glass products in the union has been severely disrupted. between 2000 and 2010, employment in the overall glass sector in europe decreased by 32%. in wallonia, which has a strong glass manufacturing experience, several large companies have experienced difficulties in recent years: the number of jobs in the glass sector fell by 19% between 2007 and 2012 in the provinces of hainaut and namur and the number of job losses in the whole region amounted to 1 236 in 2013 and 1 878 in 2014.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in order to adapt to globalisation, the belgian glass industry needs additional resources to train and guide the often young people working in this sector in their search for a new job.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european semester report which, for the first time, sets out the guidelines for policies to be pursued during the year, calls for more investment and a balanced tax policy alongside austerity measures. it also takes account of social problems and suggests ways of solving them. since the economic crisis of 2008, the european right has been imposing drastic austerity measures on us. it has now been almost eight years since these measures were introduced and nothing has changed! the debt of the states continues to rise, the unemployment rate remains at a historically high level and the gap between rich and poor is widening by the day. however, since the beginning of this year we have seen encouraging signs of change and this report is yet another proof of this. investment is becoming a priority and we can only be satisfied with that. i can only welcome this change of direction in europe and hope that it will help to revive the european economy and with it growth and employment.
in writing. ‒ the annual growth analysis report of the 2016 european semester unfortunately calls for the inflation of budget deficits, the creation of a euro-zone budget and the enlargement of the eu budget. since the report also contains good elements, such as the recognition that the high public and private debt makes us particularly vulnerable and the focus on structural reforms, the n-va delegation decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted the resolution this afternoon by 395 votes to 203, with 50 abstentions. the resolution also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a more active role in the fight against terrorism. the text also calls for a reduction in taxation on labour, for better national follow-up of country-specific recommendations, for more national investment in countries with large current account surpluses and for measures against aggressive corporate tax planning. in the context of multiple crises, it is necessary to strengthen the internal cohesion of the european union by means of a stronger and more balanced economic recovery (not forgetting the social one, which was the subject of another report today).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text and hope that all actors will actively engage with the european semester 2016 in order to achieve a stronger economic recovery and a better resilience of the european social market economy to structural shocks and difficulties, thus proving that european democracy works and is able to ensure sustainable and broadly shared prosperity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. improving the economic climate in europe requires structural changes to make our economy competitive again and to attract investment. i think that this report places too much emphasis on public spending rather than on economic modernisation and social reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the employment report on the european semester, which recalls that the priority of national and european policies must be the creation of quality jobs and the generation of growth. here, too, the emphasis is on a balance between structural reforms, fiscal consolidation and sustainable investment, alongside an analysis of the social and economic impacts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination which paid particular attention to employment and social aspects in the context of the annual growth survey 2016. while the economic forecasts for 2016 are encouraging, it is clear that unemployment levels are still very high in the european union, especially among young people. while i am in favour of coordinating economic policies in europe, i am also in favour of better integrating the social objectives of the europe 2020 strategy into the european semester. it is on this basis that we must coordinate economic policies in europe. i am therefore pleased to see that a majority of my european colleagues have joined me in calling for 'a stronger role for the europe 2020 strategy' and for 'social objectives to be reflected equally in all the instruments of the european semester, including the country-specific recommendations'. more than ever, we need to coordinate our economic policies to improve the social conditions of all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ a strong economy is the best foundation for social prosperity. unfortunately, this report does not take sufficient account of this. the final text adopted by the plenary session, while referring to the importance of subsidiarity, unfortunately remains very prescriptive in certain passages. the n-va is also calling for a number of initiatives at eu level that it cannot support. the n-va is in favour of european social objectives but counts on the achievement of these objectives not so much on the european commission but above all on the member states themselves. this does not mean that there is no role for the european commission, which can indeed provide support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. to align european and national growth policies and ensure their relevance on the ground, it is crucial to strengthen the role of the social partners at both european and national level. to move towards upward convergence and to achieve a balance between competitiveness and equity, the social dialogue should be pursued at all stages of the european semester. in this regard, i welcome the commission's efforts to relaunch the social dialogue and the simplified approach presented by the eac 2015. however, it should be remembered that in many member states the situation remains weak at national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european semester in the context of the single market as the pillar of the european economy. further development of the european single market is essential to help create jobs in the european union. the completion of the single market would produce economic gains of between eur 651 billion and eur 1 100 billion per year, equivalent to between 5% and 8.63% of the union's gdp. competition is also an essential element of the report and all forms of competition, including digital, are examined.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, adopted by 462 votes to 166, with 7 abstentions, the european parliament called once again for the inclusion of the single market pillar in the european semester, with a regular monitoring system, an identification of country-specific obstacles to the single market, and an assessment of its integration and competitiveness, with particular emphasis on the importance to be given to growth and employment, especially smes. let us not forget that the single market is an indispensable resource on which europe's economic prosperity depends. its untapped potential is estimated at eur 1 trillion. in order to achieve real results in terms of jobs, growth and competitiveness, progress in the integration of the single market within the member states must be accompanied by better governance and greater transparency, including the implementation and enforcement of existing european legislation.
in writing. ‒ we strongly believe that easy access to information for businesses and consumers is a prerequisite for good governance of the single market. the interest of the work of the commission and the member states on a number of information portals for different users: businesses, citizens and consumers is recognised. we believe that a simple, user-friendly and accessible umbrella portal, such as the single digital portal, is necessary to streamline and simplify access to information and promote existing user platforms, provided that national and regional public authorities make the portal accessible and publicly inform citizens about its use.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted in favour of the report on the internal market policy within the european semester 2016. the report focuses on the major benefits of the single market for both consumers and businesses. the single market contributes to job creation and growth. consumers can enjoy a wider choice of quality products and services at lower prices, and businesses benefit from access to a larger market. the n-va believes that strong efforts must be made to tackle existing barriers in the member states which impede the efficient functioning of the internal market. this is sufficiently reflected in the report, which also pays special attention to smes. finally, we are very pleased with the emphasis in the report on better regulation, which looks first and foremost at the effective application and enforcement of existing rules and instruments, before simply creating new rules.
in writing. ‒ although employment in europe has improved slightly, more labour market reforms are needed if we are to see a greater decline in unemployment in the long term. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is calling for the opening of negotiations on an eu-tunisia free trade agreement. i am not opposed to free trade per se, but it is difficult for me to form an informed opinion on the opening of negotiations without having seen a mandate from the council of the european union. even though parliament is not involved in the drafting of such a mandate - which i very much regret - and these negotiating mandates have only been made publicly available under public pressure, i believe that the only way to express an opinion on the appropriateness of free trade agreements is to look at these negotiating guidelines. that is why i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which approves the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia. the latter has been hit hard by the terrorist attacks that have been perpetrated on its soil in recent months. it is therefore essential to stabilise the country politically and economically and to consolidate its democracy. this free trade agreement must contribute to this by being both progressive and asymmetrical and by aiming to have a positive impact on consumer prices, employment, wages and the reduction of inequalities.
in writing. ‒ i support the initiative to open negotiations for a free trade agreement with tunisia. the european union is tunisia's main economic partner. the signing of an in-depth free trade agreement should allow for greater convergence and integration between the tunisian and european markets. the agreement should also extend european standards to the environment, consumer protection and workers' rights in tunisia. i think, however, that this agreement must be carried out in cautious steps, with the greatest transparency and with the greatest respect for the situation in tunisia, the only country which has courageously managed to maintain itself on the path of democracy in the aftermath of the arab spring and which is clearly struggling to restart its economy. the union's support at this difficult stage and the strengthening of democratic reforms in tunisia are essential, especially as the region remains highly unstable. i am convinced that tunisia today needs comprehensive european support to revive and diversify its economy but also and above all to strengthen its democratic process and its fragile political institutions.
in writing. ‒ as a n-va delegation, we support the resolution for the opening of negotiations on an eu free trade agreement with tunisia. in early 2011, tunisia was the birthplace of the arab spring. the jasmine revolution then marked the beginning of a difficult process for the country to build a democratic order. the resolution recognises the democratic steps taken by tunisia in the meantime. the negotiations on a free trade agreement with the eu are a key element in tunisia's further development. a trade agreement can be a catalyst for political stability and economic development. this is very important for a country which is going through a process of democratization with ups and downs. deep economic reforms in areas such as trade in services, effective investment protection and improved trade access to european markets will ensure growth and jobs. we also want to point out the possible influence of intensive trade relations in bringing the flow of migration towards europe under control. the conclusion of a trade agreement and the implementation of economic reforms can offer tunisians a better future prospect of building a good life in their own country.
in writing. ‒ tunisia has come a long way since the arab spring and has been the target of terrorist attacks precisely because it is on the path to consolidating its democracy. these attacks have had a huge impact on the tourism sector and the economy in general, at a time when tunisians were already facing a difficult economic crisis, with a high unemployment rate. this is why it is crucial that europe expresses its solidarity with the tunisian people and helps them with concrete measures that immediately and directly stimulate their economy. the resolution voted this afternoon contributes to this by encouraging the free trade negotiations with tunisia launched last october.
in writing. ‒ of course, this is only a resolution, but it must be considered that the deepening of euro-tunisian trade relations with the conclusion of an ambitious trade partnership must open up prospects for growth and rapprochement for the economies of tunisia and the european union. it is desirable that this partnership contribute to the political and democratic stabilisation of tunisia.
in writing. ‒ as the liberal group leader in the european parliament responsible for the follow-up to the political situation in tunisia, i felt it was very important to support the commission's proposal, as my liberal colleague de sarnez put it in her report. tunisia is one of the few countries in the region that has made positive progress since the arab spring. that is why tunisia deserves all possible support, including as an ally against is.
in writing. ‒ the european ombudsman (or european ombudsman) investigates complaints about maladministration in the institutions and bodies (except the european court of justice) of the european union. this includes, for example, irregularities in administration, discrimination, abuse of power or failure to reply to letters. any eu citizen, company, association or other body established in the eu can lodge a complaint. since 1 october 2013, the office of the eu ombudsman has been held by emily o'reilly, who was re-elected by the european parliament on 16 december 2014. in 2014, 23 072 citizens used the services of ombudsmen. it dealt with 2079 complaints, initiated 342 investigations and closed 400 investigations. the european commission was the most frequently requested complaint or inquiry, followed by eu agencies. i welcome the annual report 2014 and the work of mrs o'reilly, and congratulate her not only on her achievements but also on her good cooperation with parliament. the commission's recent efforts to make the authorization of plant protection products by the european commission transparent are commendable.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the 2014 annual report of the european ombudsman. it highlights in particular the investigations it has opened on transparency within the eu institutions, on the transparency of lobbying activities, on fundamental rights, on ethical issues, on trade negotiations, etc.
in writing. ‒ in this report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014, parliament welcomes the inquiries opened by the ombudsman, stating that the main themes emerging from these inquiries were transparency within the eu institutions, transparency of lobbying activities and clinical trials, fundamental rights, ethical issues, citizen participation in the eu decision-making process, eu-funded projects and programmes and eu competition policy. the report states that the ombudsman's emphasis on transparency is essential to ensure good administration. it was asked to investigate transparency issues concerning parliament's early access to relevant commission documents on infringements and on the union's pilot procedure, in particular when they are linked to existing petitions. parliament also welcomed and supported the fact that the ombudsman had made greater use of her power to open strategic inquiries on her own initiative.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the ombudsman's main priority is to ensure that citizens' rights are fully respected and that the right to good administration reflects the highest standards expected of the union's institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. it should play a key role in helping the european institutions to improve their openness, efficiency and proximity to citizens with a view to strengthening their trust in the union.
in writing. ‒ ms o'reilly has done an excellent job as ombudsman, especially with regard to the transparency of the ttip negotiations. i hope that it will continue to work in this way to help the european institutions to become more efficient, more transparent and more accountable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the annual report 2014 of the european central bank. despite the central bank's independence, a debate on the correctness of its policies remains important. the forecasts for growth within the eu are currently at 1.7%. however, high unemployment rates remain a concern. i therefore believe that it is particularly important to give consistent support to small and mediumsized enterprises, which are important job creators in the eu. the low interest rate tactic also remains controversial, especially for pension savers and savings account holders. the objectives pursued are the right ones: to help the countries to get out of the debt crisis and to strengthen the single currency.
in writing. ‒ this is an annual report to assess the ecb's performance. the ecb plays a key role in unconventional monetary policy operations. however, these are the limits of what monetary policy can achieve and we need more positive and targeted investment and socially balanced structural reforms. the report focuses on the economic outlook for the euro area and the ecb's role in macroeconomic adjustment programmes. there is also a challenge to the role of the troika and unconventional monetary policies.
in writing. ‒ this annual report is the best one we have seen in years, although there is always room for improvement. the report on this subject contains some particularly critical paragraphs concerning the ecb's irresponsible monetary policy. the 'grand coalition' of the ppe, s&d and alde was unfortunately not prepared to ask whether the ecb is not going beyond its mandate. that is one of the reasons why the n-va delegation chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report and supported in particular an amendment calling on the ecb to consider using its legislative initiative power in accordance with article 129 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union to reform, by means of the ordinary legislative procedure, article 33 (1) (a) of the statute of the ecb, with a view to converting part of the net profit of this institution into a new own resource of the union. the amendment states that this should be done in such a way as to ensure that the net profit of the ecb benefits only those member states which have adopted the single currency.
in writing. - i've approved the annual report. i can only regret that, even if they are gradually being reduced, there are differences between the financing rates for smes and those for large enterprises, between the interest rates applied to low- and high-interest loans, and between the credit conditions offered to smes in different euro area countries, but i can acknowledge the limits of monetary policy in this respect. in this respect, we welcome the role played by savings banks, credit unions and mutual banks, while stressing that the regulatory framework should be adapted to their particular operating principles and respect their specific mission, and that supervisory authorities should be sensitive to these characteristics and take them into account in their practices and strategies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the annual report because it is of fundamental importance that the ecb can count on the support of the european parliament in times of great economic uncertainty.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is calling for the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand. i am not opposed to free trade per se, but it is difficult for me to form an informed opinion on the opening of negotiations without having seen a mandate from the council of the european union. although the european parliament is not involved in the drafting of such a mandate - which i regret just as much as the fact that the negotiating mandates have only been made freely available to the public under public pressure - i believe that the usefulness of free trade agreements can only be assessed once these negotiating guidelines have been examined. that is why i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the deepening of trade relations between the union, australia and new zealand, but we must be very careful in the course of the negotiations to ensure that the initial aim does not undermine the social, environmental or health protection of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement with australia and new zealand because i believe that strengthening relations between the eu and the asia-pacific region can have a beneficial effect on european economic growth. australia and new zealand are key players in this region. enlarging and developing trade with these partners can help to boost the economic growth of the three partners, especially as australia, new zealand and the eu share common values and are committed to promoting prosperity and security within a rules-based international order. in addition, the eu, australia and new zealand are currently engaged in multilateral negotiations to further liberalise trade in environmental goods and trade in services. finally, australia and new zealand took part in the negotiations on the trans-pacific partnership, which have just been concluded. i would not understand why the eu is not also involved in the conclusion of modern, ambitious, balanced and comprehensive free trade agreements. i would, however, like to see negotiations conducted in a transparent manner and in compliance with european environmental, health and social standards.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has given its consent to the launch of negotiations for free trade agreements with australia and new zealand. the conclusion of these agreements will maximise the growth potential of the enhanced relations between the union and the asia-pacific region and will allow for increased cooperation on standards without levelling food safety, environmental protection, social protection or worker protection from the bottom up. the european parliament also called for the interests of smes to be taken into account and for a 'serious and ambitious' chapter on sustainable development to be included, incorporating the core labour standards, the four priority ilo governance conventions and the multilateral environmental agreements. the text of the resolution also stresses that agriculture is a 'very sensitive sector' and calls for balanced final results in agriculture and fisheries to take due account of the interests of all union producers (in particular in the meat, dairy, sugar, cereals and textile sectors).
in writing. ‒ the opening of these free trade negotiations does not seem to pose any problems. however, they must remain strictly commercial so that our european standards are not called into question and that, in the end, the rights of european citizens are not curtailed under the pretext of hypothetical gains.
in writing. ‒ it is in the interest of the european economy that we strengthen ties with australia and new zealand and promote free trade with these two countries. that is why i voted for this resolution.
pets make their owners happy every day and are surrounded by the best care. but sadly, more and more animals are also falling victim to illegal trade practices, with devastating consequences for their welfare. we must put an end to these practices. the identification and registration of pet animals is an essential tool in this respect. flanders is one of the leaders in europe in the registration of dogs and cats. this not only allows us to return stray animals to their owners and thus tackle the problem of stray animals, but also to put an end to this illegal trade. but that trade doesn't stop at the borders. that is why my party, the n-va, has long been a party calling for more european action. although many member states have mandatory systems for pet registration, there are major differences. the call for better coordination is therefore a strong and necessary signal from parliament to reduce this illegal trade in the interests of animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ with this non-legislative resolution, parliament wants to ensure that national databases for the registration of dogs and cats are compatible with each other. the aim is to combat illegal trade in pets, which is increasingly linked to organised crime. i have agreed to this text because i too believe that compulsory registration of dogs and cats can not only reduce counterfeiting and illegal trade but also promote animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this joint resolution which calls for the implementation of a compatible system for the identification and registration of pet animals throughout the union, which will not only help to combat illegal trade in animals but also to identify the origin of disease outbreaks or to combat animal abuse.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which asks the commission to ensure compatibility between member states' databases on cats and dogs and to consider establishing databases for other pets as well. i believe that compulsory registration of pets and the sharing of information at european level would reduce the possibilities of falsifying documents, help to combat illegal trade, identify the source of disease outbreaks and combat animal abuse and mistreatment. many member states already have compulsory systems for the identification and registration of pet animals, but there are disparities in the type of information held or the animals concerned. all national databases should therefore be made compatible.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has underlined the positive role that pets play in the lives of millions of people and families throughout the union and reaffirms that owners must be able to travel with their pets throughout the union in a safe and controlled manner. we are generally satisfied with the improvements to the animal travel scheme introduced by regulation (eu) no 576/2013, including the additional security features in the pet passport and future improvements to be implemented once the animal health legislation has been adopted by the co-legislators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that there should be minimum standards across europe on how we treat our pets. the legislation on and treatment of pets in the eu is very diverse, ranging from belgian legislation to the situation in the romanian capital bucharest, where hundreds of dogs roam free. there is still much to improve, but minimum rules are absolutely necessary.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, parliament expresses its deep concern at the deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen, which is currently being ravaged by a terrible civil war. the question of a general arms embargo against saudi arabia is a choice between plague and cholera, given the precarious security situation in the arabian peninsula. the crimes committed by the saudi arabian state are, of course, unacceptable. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution as a whole and also of the sections which state that arms deliveries should not be authorised if there is a clear risk that they will be used to commit serious violations of international humanitarian law and that this must be controlled by inspectors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the arms exports are not disrupted by the threat of a nuclear war. i therefore believe that a general arms embargo is not appropriate for the purposes of this coalition at the present time.
in writing. ‒ i supported this joint resolution which first of all underlines the dire humanitarian situation (21 million yemenis need humanitarian aid in one form or another) in which the country has found itself since the beginning of a conflict in which nearly 6 000 people have already been killed and more than 28 000 injured, notably as a result of airstrikes by the saudi-led coalition and acts by the houthis. parliament therefore stressed the importance of international humanitarian aid, stressed its concern at the air strikes by the saudi-led coalition, called on all parties to respect humanitarian law and human rights and on the union to promote these values, particularly in its political dialogue with saudi arabia. it stressed that only a negotiated and non-exclusive solution could restore peace and added that all parties should engage as soon as possible in peace negotiations under the auspices of the united nations.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation votes in favour of the amendment requesting the eu high representative to take the initiative for an eu arms embargo against saudi arabia if necessary following proven violations of international humanitarian law in yemen by saudi arabia. we do believe that such an arms embargo should apply to military goods in their own right and not to so-called dual-use goods.
in writing. ‒ i am extremely concerned about the alarming deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen: the risk of famine, indiscriminate attacks on civilians, including medical and humanitarian personnel, the destruction of civilian and medical infrastructure as a result of the intensification of airstrikes and the use of cluster bombs. more than 2.51 million yemenis have been internally displaced. 21.1 million people (80 per cent of the population) are in need of protection or humanitarian assistance in one form or another. more than 2.2 million children are suffering or at risk of malnutrition. in the face of this alarming situation, i support the call for coordinated humanitarian action under the auspices of the un and for all countries to contribute to meeting yemen's humanitarian needs. i also support the call for the union to promote effective respect for international humanitarian law in its political dialogue with saudi arabia and its partners, but also with iran, as both states have a key role to play in resolving the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text of this resolution, which expresses parliament's grave concern at the deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen. the failure of successive governments to respond to the aspirations of the yemeni people for democracy, stability and security has led to the current crisis, which has left 21 million yemenis (82 per cent of the total population) in need of humanitarian assistance and prevented two million children from attending school. the text voted at noon today calls on the warring parties in yemen to respect a ceasefire agreement to allow emergency aid, such as food and medicine, to reach the yemeni people. it also called on all parties to avoid directly targeting civilian infrastructure, medical facilities and water supply networks. i believe that only a political, inclusive and negotiated solution can restore peace and preserve the unity of yemen.
in writing. ‒ failing to pursue a political path of cohesion, yemen has become entangled in intensifying tribal tensions and a violent war between iran-backed houthi rebels and saudi arabia, which is waging a military campaign against the rebels that is directly plunging the entire region into a complex conflict that has been going on for several months. saudi arabia sees houthi rebels in yemen as an iranian proxy force, and iran has condemned the saudi-led offensive and called for an immediate halt to its airstrikes. the deteriorating security situation in yemen, where at least 5,700 people, nearly half of them civilians, have been killed since the conflict escalated in march 2015, is raising growing international concern. houthi soldiers are accused of using heavy weapons in populated areas, while the saudi-led coalition is accused of conducting several airstrikes on hospitals and other civilian buildings. this text expresses the european parliament's concern and solidarity with the yemeni people.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution because i want to call on high representative federica mogherini to impose an arms embargo on saudi arabia. the situation in yemen is extremely worrying. not only is there a regional conflict with many casualties, but the threat of terrorism from this region remains real. several ngos, as well as unesco and unicef, have already sounded the alarm. the un has tried to mediate, to no avail so far. yemen has become a place where regional powers are fighting their own war with ruthless opponents who are slaughtering civilians. the saudi-led coalition has also committed violations of international humanitarian law.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great pride that i present to you today the new scheme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables and milk in schools, the culmination of a year and a half of work. this result is the result of intensive collaboration with the rapporteurs of the political groups, to whom i am very grateful: mrs sofia ribeiro, mrs ulrike müller, mr james nicholson, mr bronis ropé, mr marco zullo and mr matt carthy. i would also like to congratulate the european commission teams, who made an excellent proposal under the leadership of mr joost korte, and the luxembourg presidency, represented by mr franck schmidt, with whom we have worked closely. the new programme is based on two pillars: the health of children and the teaching of healthy eating habits from an early age through schools, and support for farmers. in the first pillar, we have ensured that the distribution of fresh produce - fruit, vegetables and milk - is an obligation for the member states participating in the programme. the member states participating in this programme - i would remind you that participation is voluntary - will have the possibility of extending the list of products, but under very strict conditions. for example, we have secured the ban on artificial sweeteners and flavourings and the strengthening of the role of national health authorities. i would remind you that one of the main objectives of this new programme is to combat childhood obesity and to improve the health of children. the educational measures, now compulsory, will be aimed at introducing children to agriculture, while teaching them good eating habits from an early age. remember, school plays an important role in training young people for life and in helping them to develop healthy eating habits. the new programme also aims to encourage local and regional production, short-term production, organic products and thus to support small local farmers by also promoting the seasonality of products. in addition, parliament's powers have been strengthened by this negotiation, since the council wanted the application of article 43 (3), which excluded us from important parts of this dossier. finally, we have obtained in the negotiations the second paragraph of rule 43, which gives us full codecision. i fought and succeeded, with the help of all the fictitious rapporteurs, in safeguarding the prerogatives of this parliament. as regards the budget, in particular, we have obtained an increase of eur 20 million for the milk programme, to bring it up to eur 100 million, so that it is painless for the countries which have been using it very well for a long time and that the latter are not penalized by a distribution which will also benefit countries which had no historical references. i am thinking in particular of croatia. as regards the transfers between the two programmes, parliament and the council have agreed on a 20% transfer rate between the two programmes, with an additional 5% for the outermost regions. some countries wanted 50 percent, even 100 percent. it wouldn't have made any sense, because we would have drained one program for the benefit of the other. the commission has also been given the task of producing a report on the implementation of transfers in 2023. we have also made the distribution of budgetary envelopes between member states fairer. two criteria for the whole programme: the share of children aged 6 to 10 in the member states, but also the level of development and the region of the member state. for milk, we will take account of the historical use of the programme's funds, as i said, with, of course, - we have not forgotten - the countries which had no historical reference or, at any rate, had less. clearly, the visibility of the programmes and the reduction of administrative burdens are further advances achieved by parliament, still pursuing the same objective: to enable more children and schools to benefit from this programme. for all these reasons, i would ask all members to support this report, which aims to improve the health of children, to encourage nutrition education and to support agricultural production, which, as you know, is in difficulty, particularly in the fruit and vegetable sector.
"blue card" question. what is it? i've been listening to you. i am sorry that you are so intent on ruining this wonderful project for our schools and our farmers. i'm probably one of the few people here in the hemisphere. my children are in school, and we live in a city where all schools participate in these programs. i can assure you: an apple a day keeps the doctor away. so i would like to ask you: put that criticism aside, promote these programs in schools. i would also like to ask you: promote the fruit sector to all voters!
the rapporteur. mr president, perhaps it should first be recalled that parliament has indeed made a firm effort to ensure that the legal basis is one which clearly allows co-decision. in this respect, i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs again, who unanimously supported me and made sure that the legal basis was the one we wanted. i shall make five comments on the content in response to the comments of five colleagues. firstly, as regards the six to ten year olds: i would remind you that this is an objective criterion for determining the amount due to each member state, but that it is, of course, permissible for the member states to use the money for children from the age of zero, that is to say, in day-care centres, in nursery and primary schools, of course, but also in secondary schools. at least that allowed for objective criteria. the second thought was chocolate milk. a few grams of sweetness in a world so brutal, it doesn't hurt. especially since they demanded that it be real chocolate, made from real chocolate beans, with no artificial flavors, and that there be 90 percent milk in the chocolate milk. so if chocolate milk can help children absorb more calcium, which is good for their bone structure, how much better! thirdly, some have criticised the commission - there is one who has - saying that the role of parliament is to be more responsive to the citizens. i would like to say that the commission has done a very good job on this proposal. as for the organic regulation under discussion, the commission has done a very good job, and it is the council which is currently distorting this regulation. as regards the reflection on health authorities, on health which is not a european competence: clearly, the european union has a right to be concerned that obesity is increasing among children and that in 24 out of 28 countries in the union, the daily consumption of fruit and vegetables is insufficient. we are therefore only suggesting to the member states that there is a budget of 250 million, which they can add to by national co-financing. fifthly, on the budget: as i have just said, cofinancing by the member states is possible. i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking three people in particular, in addition to the fictitious rapporteurs: alexandra leone, my assistant, who has been a great help to me on this matter, maggie coulthard from my political group, and hélène cuisinier from the staff of parliament's committee on agriculture, who has been very effective in the negotiations.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency for ports. i believe that the future regulation should make it possible to increase the efficiency and reduce the cost of services provided in the maritime ports of the european union. i would like to make a few points in this report. firstly, the necessary transparency in the accounts of ports as regards public funds. it is normal, even essential, that the citizen should be able to easily identify public funds in port accounts. another point i would like to stress is the right of staff to benefit from working conditions based on binding national, regional or local social standards and appropriate training. now i also expect the european parliament's negotiators to insist on these points in the negotiations with the council with a view to achieving an ambitious final regulation in the interests of all, and in particular of workers and citizens.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. it's a shame to waste tax money, but it's a living disgrace to cheat with tax money. that is the subject of the report we are discussing tonight. i do have a few comments. i call on the commission and the olaf to make a further effort. when i saw the figures in the report, i was a little surprised. we all know the stories of fraud in the context of, for example, cohesion policy or agricultural subsidies. the second. i think that this report could pay a little more attention to prevention, because prevention is better than cure, even in the context of fraud. the third. finally, i note that the report calls for the creation of a new european agency, another european agency, a third agency alongside eurojust and olaf. and i sincerely wonder whether this is really necessary and whether it cannot be done much more efficiently.
madam president, commissioner, the big data market represents both an opportunity for growth and a real danger for consumers. my opinion on this matter has focused on three main aspects which i believe are essential to take into account in this balance of interests. first, it is essential that all companies, from small and mediumsized enterprises to multinational companies, have an equal chance of benefiting from the explosion of the big data sector. the commission has therefore proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. secondly, the use of big data in the public sphere is likely to facilitate and accelerate the administrative process. let us therefore seize this opportunity to innovate and make our public administration services more efficient. last but not least, the big data market is a major issue for consumer protection. it is therefore imperative to put in place a legislative framework to avoid the risks of fraudulent behaviour and the use of citizens' data for harmful purposes.
"blue card" question. what is it? i must say that i am actually very glad that you are throwing some pepper into the debate this morning. should we be zealous for international women's day? i hear two colleagues say: no, that's not necessary anymore! i'm very sorry about that. after hearing the commissioner today, i think that we as women must continue to fight for equal rights for men and women. and actually, that should happen every day. not just on women's day. but let us, please, make this fight a success on this day! i want to ask you a very specific question. you said: men and women have the same rights. do you agree with me that we should be able to divide maternity leave freely between men and women, so that women can also develop their careers to the full?
madam president, at present one third of asylum seekers are women, 38% of migrants in the mediterranean are women and children and 55% of migrants arriving in greece are women and children. these figures show the deplorable human conditions in the countries of origin due to war and instability, but they also show us more particularly that for women, sexual violence is important in these countries. we heard last week from nawal soufi, who came to testify to the dramatic situations these women are facing today. these figures also show us that it is important to take into account the particular situation of these women, starting with the gender dimension in the context of the application for refugee status, a status which was drafted by men for men and which must be urgently reviewed. we must also take into account the needs of women in the migration journey. the question of genital mutilation, for example, needs to be taken much more seriously. we must also improve the conditions of reception, and i am advocating here for access to health, sexual and reproductive rights, including the issue of safe abortion, and, finally, for the inclusion and integration of these women, so that they can live here in europe. if we do nothing, history will record that europe has turned away massively from the essence of its values. humanism, solidarity and human rights are what this report calls for. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate mary honeyball on her work.
despite the good intentions, this report misses the point completely. i fully agree that attention should be paid to the difficult and often precarious situation of female refugees. for example, it is an excellent idea to advocate separate sleeping and sanitation facilities for single women and single mothers with children in shelters. of course, rape and all forms of violence against vulnerable people and children must be vigorously combated. prevention is also important. but the question is whether a policy of open borders and legal channels for migration will make all these problems disappear like snow in the sun. nor is it really a solution to give all female refugees more assistance and rights just because one is a woman. what about the principle of non-discrimination? another problem is that this report makes no distinction between people fleeing war, torture or persecution and economic migrants. it also states that under no circumstances may minor asylum seekers be detained. the existing eu directive on this subject should therefore be deleted. the few paragraphs that do go to the heart of the matter (...)
in writing. i would like to emphasize four points which seem to me to be of primary importance in this context: first, the establishment of an information system for women in the asylum procedure, in particular on their rights in this area, such as the possibility of requesting that an investigator and an interpreter be allowed to conduct an individual interview without the presence of a third person; secondly, the granting of a legal status to women migrants independent of their spouses, as well as family reunification procedures that give them individual rights; thirdly, the establishment of a programme to meet the health needs of refugee women in both the short and long term, including psychosocial counselling and access to abortion. fourth, compliance with directive 2011/36 on the prevention of trafficking in human beings, as well as better police and judicial cooperation to best combat trafficking and smuggling of migrants
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, parliament adopted a legislative proposal aimed at establishing rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases transmissible to animals or humans. i voted in favour of and welcome the creation of a single, simplified, transparent and clear legal framework.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which approves the proposal for a regulation aimed in particular at strengthening the prevention of transmissible animal diseases and reducing the administration of antibiotics to animals. without prejudice to the requirements of this regulation, member states are also invited to commit to collecting relevant, comparable and sufficiently detailed data on the effective administration of antimicrobials to animals and to transmit such data to the commission, with the aim of achieving a more prudent administration of antimicrobials to animals and thus contributing to the reduction of the risk of antimicrobial resistance. the text also includes provisions on animal welfare. thus, all disease control measures should take into account animal welfare and avoid inflicting any pain, distress or suffering on the targeted animals.
in writing. certain transmissible animal diseases are a serious animal health problem that can also be dangerous for humans. preventing outbreaks of diseases such as swine fever and avian influenza should therefore be a priority for both the scientific community and policy-makers. i welcome the position adopted by parliament on the proposal for a regulation on transmissible animal diseases. i am particularly pleased that the link between animal health and animal welfare has been clearly established. compliance with good animal husbandry practices and european animal welfare standards is an essential corollary to animal health and therefore human health. the prudent and controlled use of antibiotics in animals is also part of a responsible policy for animal health and therefore public health. finally, i welcome the work on simplification and legislative coherence which has now culminated in the adoption of this legislation. it merits the merits of merging almost 40 legislative acts into one.
in writing. ‒ the regulation voted at noon today will make it possible to better prevent and control animal disease outbreaks in the union. with 13.7 million livestock farms in the territory, it was important to provide a strong european response to these threats that know no borders. animal diseases cause losses of hundreds of thousands of euros to producers each year and pose a serious public health risk if transmitted to humans. the text simplifies european legislation by replacing some 40 pieces of legislation, gives priority to prevention measures, clarifies the responsibilities of animal health actors and combats over-medication of animals, which is responsible for bacteria resistance to antibiotics. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services.
in writing. ‒ yesterday we approved the text on transmissible animal diseases. the measures adopted, informally agreed between the european parliament and the council of ministers of the union in june 2015, aim to prevent and stop outbreaks of animal diseases such as avian influenza and african swine fever. this draft eu legislation on diseases transmissible to animals, and potentially also to humans, focuses on prevention and should help professionals to keep pace with scientific progress. the regulation will be published shortly in the official journal of the union, will enter into force 20 days after its publication and will then apply for five years.
in writing. ‒ the initially strong report lost some of its plumage after the first reading following the negotiations with the commission and the council, but remains defensible. the green paper on the mandatory identification of dogs with a chip was not included from 2018. on the other hand, professional breeders and sellers of pets are required to register without exception. other matters are covered by other legislation. for example, inspections on the identification of farm animals are included in the regulation as official controls and the objective of reducing antibiotic use is linked to the legislation on veterinary medicines. i voted in favour of the proposal because the strong link between animal health and the presence of high animal welfare standards is still in the proposal. the fact that antimicrobial resistance should be considered when imposing disease prevention and control measures also remains a strong reference. the 'master list' of diseases covered by this legislation will be established by a delegated act (and not by implementing measures, as the commission wanted) and there is a commitment to preserve biodiversity and valuable genetic material. finally, disease control measures should, as far as possible, aim at avoiding pain, misery and suffering.
in writing. ‒ emphasize the preventive role of the animal communicable diseases regulation (the 'animal health legislation') and the expected reduction in the administration of antibiotics to animals. without prejudice to the requirements of this regulation, member states are invited to commit to collecting relevant, comparable and sufficiently detailed data on the effective administration of antimicrobials to animals and to transmit such data to the commission, with the aim of achieving a more prudent administration of antimicrobials to animals and thus contributing to the reduction of the risk of antimicrobial resistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because these rules will contribute to a higher level of prevention and better control of transmissible animal diseases in the european union. these diseases know no borders and a european response is therefore more than appropriate.
in writing. ‒ parliament confirmed an agreement between the council and parliament, endorsed by the committee on agriculture and rural development, which combines the existing school milk and school fruit programmes and increases the annual financial allocation by eur 20 million to eur 250 million. i think it is important that the eu and its member states make a greater effort to ensure that our children have a healthy diet. since school is where they spend most of their day, it is important that they can both get healthy food and be better educated about healthy eating habits.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased to have supported this report which will help to extend and strengthen the work of my colleague and friend marc tarabella in support of free distribution of fruit and vegetables and milk in schools on the basis of european union funding. this is clearly an initiative that multiplies the positive aspects such as the promotion of healthy eating habits to combat the consumption of sugary or fatty foods by children, which is the cause of obesity or health problems in the future. thanks to this initiative, 30 million children will eat healthier food in almost 200 000 schools in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i support the agreement on a new school scheme for milk and fruit for the following reasons: the number of overweight or obese children continues to increase each year. in flanders, 1 in 5 young people is overweight; the age group 5 to 9 is the most concerned. there are, of course, a number of reasons for this, but too little fruit and vegetables is a major factor in this story. encouraging healthy eating from infancy is absolutely necessary and the school system can make a valuable contribution! secondly, i support the reform because it aims to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the scheme, reduce the administrative burden and thus lower the threshold for schools to participate. finally, i also see an economic argument, namely that most of the products concerned are produced by local or regional producers. this agreement is a step in the right direction, but of course it is only one piece of a larger puzzle. promoting healthy lifestyles, especially among children, requires a long-term, structural and integrated approach with a crucial role for the competent authorities in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because statistics show that the consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk continues to fall in europe, that more than 20 million european children are overweight and that our adolescents on average consume only 30 to 50% of the recommended daily intake of fruit and vegetables. a healthy, balanced diet is the foundation of good health. that is why i support any initiative to strengthen the school diet of fruit, vegetables and milk by focusing more on education on healthy eating. moreover, since the milk and fruit programmes in schools have operated under different legal and financial arrangements, i believe that it was necessary to ensure the stability of the programme. i welcome the additional €20 million per year negotiated by parliament to finance the distribution of dairy products and the implementation of educational measures. this brings the annual funding for milk to €100 million, while €150 million is allocated to fruit and vegetables.
in writing. obesity is one of the major ills of this century, especially among children, and is a symptom of an era characterized by rampant production and consumption of highly processed foods. this change in dietary habits has come at the expense of fresh fruits and vegetables and has favored a diet rich in salt, sugars, additives and fat. often aware of the issues, the authorities have so far found it difficult to provide a lasting solution to the problem, at a time when the difficult economic environment is making it increasingly difficult for less privileged families to consume fresh fruits and vegetables. i welcome the sustainability of the report. by ensuring that children have access to fresh, local produce, the report helps to raise awareness of healthy, varied and balanced diets and to introduce the new generation to sustainable and organic farming. it is therefore a long-term investment, whether in terms of public health, economic development or the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted with the large majority of meps in favour of this report to merge the two european programmes for milk and school fruit and vegetables, which were previously separate. this will help to develop more effective strategies for educating our children on healthy and balanced diets and to make better use of european resources. i hope more than ever that everything possible will be done to combat the problem of poor eating habits, and that this will be done from an early age. the alarming finding is that more than 20 million children in the eu are overweight and adolescents on average consume only 30 to 50% of their recommended daily intake of fruit and vegetables. this report represents a first positive effort. i particularly support the decision to increase the budget for the programmes from eur 20 million to eur 250 million. in the face of a steady decline in fruit, vegetable and milk consumption, europe must persevere in this direction and devise more ambitious policies to promote healthy eating.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approved (584 votes in favour, 94 against and 32 abstentions) yesterday in strasbourg the compromise text on the community programme for the distribution of fruit and vegetables and milk in schools. the eligible products are: fruit and vegetables and fresh products; drinking milk and lactose-free variants; processed fruit and vegetable products; cheese, etc. in order to ensure the effectiveness of the programme, member states will have to provide for accompanying educational measures such as farm visits, distribution of a wider choice of agricultural products, education of children on related topics (healthy eating habits, local food chains, organic farming, sustainable production or combating food waste). the eu budget for this is €250 million per year (for six years): €150 million for fruit and vegetables and €100 million for milk. the council has yet to formally approve the new regulation, which will apply from 1 august 2017.
in writing. ‒ this report on school milk and fruit combines two existing programmes into a coherent whole and allocates eur 230 million per school year. yogurt, cheese and juices are also now allowed. it is important that the fruit is produced seasonally and as locally as possible. in addition to health aspects, education has a key role to play, with a focus on healthy diets, local food chains, organic farming, sustainable food production and food waste. since the introduction of these programmes in 1971, millions of children have benefited from the scheme. and that's a good thing, because research shows that in flanders, only 7% of 6- to 14-year-olds eat enough fruit and vegetables every day. the milk programme has been increased in addition to the funds which the national authorities have to allocate to it. despite the fact that member states want to allow fruit and chocolate flavours added to milk, it is positive that the eu will only pay for the milk part. the additive is the responsibility of the member state and the added products must be approved in advance. added sugars, fats and salt may only be used if they are necessary for the production process. for the first time, certain flavour enhancers and sweeteners (e620 to 650) are also no longer allowed. that's it!
‒ 30 million children will eat healthier! the european parliament's vote was the final legislative step in the tarabella report, new legislation that will make it possible to distribute fruit, vegetables and milk in schools throughout the year in all european countries, simply and free of charge. i started with an alarming observation: only 12% of belgians and 36% of europeans eat their 5 fruits and vegetables a day, while one in three european children is overweight or obese. my goals were therefore multifaceted: to provide healthy food from an early age, to establish food education, to combat obesity, but also to promote short circuits and local and regional products. today's vote is excellent news for the health of the 30 million schoolchildren who will benefit from it and for short circuits.
in writing. ‒ this support scheme is about the future of our children. statistics show that children are eating less fresh fruit and drinking less milk. current eating patterns are too often leading to childhood obesity and this must stop. it is therefore up to the european commission to make a change now. it has to promote local products, and that includes yogurt, cheese, juices and soups. this european support is also a good thing for our local fruit growers, because local fruit is included in the aid measures.
in writing. ‒ parliament adopted a commission proposal aimed at achieving a more efficient, better connected and sustainable trans-european transport network. this includes the modernisation of port services such as towing, mooring and refuelling services and port operations and the creation of an attractive framework for investment in ports. i am in favour of the commission's intention to use this regulation to counter weak competitive pressure and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services.
in writing. ‒ europe has 1200 seaports, which account for up to 3 million direct and indirect jobs. 96% of goods and 93% of passengers transiting through eu ports do so through the 319 maritime ports listed in the commission's proposal for a european transport network (ten-t). the objective of this report, which i have approved, is to contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t by creating a clear framework for market access to airport services. the proposal also aims to establish common rules on financial transparency and fees to be applied by managers or providers of port services.
in writing. ‒ with the adoption of the ports regulation, we are laying the foundations for a governance model that makes europe's ports more customer-friendly, while taking into account the different ways in which our ports already organise themselves. the regulation improves access to port services and provides for greater financial transparency. it is important that the ports themselves can continue to set the rates for the use of their services and infrastructure, of course in a transparent manner. the regulation thus ensures fair competition without creating additional administrative burdens.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on market access for port services and financial transparency in ports, because it strikes a good balance and creates a favourable climate for interinstitutional negotiations. the proposal for a regulation will contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of the ten-t without opening the door to market abuse. it will help to better organise ports by limiting the number of service providers, improve port performance, and help them to cope with changing transport and logistics requirements. it aims at greater transparency, thereby limiting unfair competition by ports and will improve job creation.
in writing. ‒ after lengthy negotiations, we adopted yesterday, by a relative majority (451 votes in favour, 243 against, 18 abstentions), the report on market access for port services and financial transparency for ports, which was considered a balanced compromise and a good basis for opening interinstitutional negotiations. the text aims, inter alia, to introduce greater transparency in the establishment of charges for the use of port services and infrastructure, as well as for public aid to port activities. however, it also provides for a series of derogations to allow, under certain conditions, the preservation of previous arrangements and the limitation of the number of service providers, provided that minimum standards are met.
in writing. ‒ in the end, i supported the report by mr fleckenstein. the compromise reached is not ideal and it could have gone much further in adapting the commission's proposal on a number of points, but it is the best compromise possible. i live in antwerp myself. the antwerp port community is not entirely happy with the compromise either, but they can live with it. i supported the green amendments, including the right to strike and the proposal to include external costs. the exercise of the legitimate right to collective bargaining or collective action, including the right to strike, should never be considered as a disruption of port services for which emergency measures may be taken. the commission must urgently prepare an integrated port policy. 2019 is the deadline for us. i also supported the rapporteur's proposal to open negotiations with the transport ministers now, in the hope of reaching a good compromise.
in writing. ‒ the port package adopted today paves the way for more competition for port services traditionally provided in a port. it's time to open up the markets and create a level playing field. the european commission's proposal dates back to 2013, so it is urgent to start negotiations with the council. the texts voted on can count on the support of my region, flanders. excessive administrative burdens on financial transparency were avoided and dredging was removed from the proposal. it is already a balanced agreement and a good basis for talks with the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims primarily at modernising port services and operations and creating framework conditions to attract investment in ports. the commission intends to use this regulation to combat the weak competitive pressure and the risk of market abuse in the sector in order to increase the efficiency of port services. goods handling and passenger services are excluded from chapter ii on market access, as they are often the subject of concession contracts and therefore fall within the scope of the directive on the award of such contracts. the proposed regulation and directive 2014/23/eu on the award of concession contracts should therefore be considered together. the guarantee of a level playing field between ports also requires a clear framework on state aid rules. the commission is currently reassessing the scope of the general block exemption regulation with a view to including criteria related to port infrastructure by december 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation on market access for port services and financial transparency of ports. this measure will connect european ports to a trans-european network, leading to more innovation and more effective operation of the relevant port services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and on harmonised indices of house prices (hipis) at union, national and sub-national level. misrepresented statistics were partly responsible for the financial crisis in 2008. this new legislation will improve the quality of consumer price indices which are important for correcting macroeconomic imbalances in the european union.
in writing. an economic and monetary area requires common tools. i am therefore pleased that we have adopted a report establishing a common legal framework for the production of harmonised indices. this is a fundamental tool for measuring inflation across the member states and for ensuring the unity of the euro area. the report has the merit of simplifying and clarifying the provisions by bringing together all the existing provisions in a single act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on a proposal for a commission regulation establishing a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and on harmonised indices of house prices (hipis) at eu, national and sub-national level. hicp is a measure of inflation, providing valuable information on the deflation of economic values such as wages, rents and interest rates; it therefore forms the basis for decisions on economic and monetary policy. it is therefore extremely important in this context to be able to rely on objective, unbiased and comparable statistics across all member states and product categories. the current hicp regulation dates from 1995 and recent developments in consumer price statistics have therefore necessitated a revision of the current framework to ensure maximum comparability for the main users of hicps.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal for a regulation establishes a uniform legal framework for the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and on harmonised indices of house prices (hipis) at union, national and sub-national level. hicp is a measure of inflation, providing valuable information on the deflation of economic values such as wages, rents and interest rates; it therefore forms the basis for decisions on economic and monetary policy. it is therefore extremely important in this context to be able to rely on objective, unbiased and comparable statistics across all member states and product categories.
in writing. ‒ i support this revision of the harmonised consumer price indices, because having a uniform measure will help member states to calculate inflation and thus make the management of our economy easier and more effective.
in writing. ‒ as in the 2013 annual report, i have again been committed in 2014 to ensuring that every penny we have available for european projects is put to good use. reporting on waste and misuse of taxpayers' money damages the reputation of the european union and of politics itself. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take action to prevent the spread of organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which worryingly highlights that the total amount of irregularities reported in 2014 amounts to eur 3.24 billion, an increase of 36% compared to 2013. of these irregularities, 16 473 were fraudulent (vat fraud, smuggling, counterfeiting, etc.) amounting to eur 538 million. in the light of these findings, the report recommends in particular that the commission harmonise the framework for reporting suspected fraud and the rules for reporting all legal actions in member states concerning the potentially fraudulent use of union resources. the report also calls on the european commission to develop a system of reliable indicators and easily applicable uniform criteria to measure the level of corruption in the member states, which is estimated to cost the eu economy €120 billion a year! as regards non-fraudulent irregularities, the report recommends administrative measures, in particular by establishing more transparent and simpler requirements and by strengthening technical assistance to member states.
in writing. the protection of the eu's financial interests is a priority. the fight against fraud is above all an ethical issue, aimed at strengthening the rule of law and putting an end to situations of impunity. the money of the european taxpayer must be used in the best interests of the public. while more than €3 billion of eu funds are at risk from fraud, only 10% have been reported and prosecuted by the member states concerned. it is the responsibility of the european union to seek out, prosecute and bring to justice those responsible for offences affecting its financial interests. that is why i strongly support the european commission's proposal to set up a european public prosecutor's office. the first thing to do is to establish a coherent system in this area.
in writing. ‒ given that corruption affects all member states and costs the european economy around €120 billion a year, i supported this text which calls on the commission and the member states to develop, at their respective levels, interconnected databases on irregularities in the area of cohesion policy, including those arising from the award of public contracts. the text also calls on the national audit bodies of all member states to ensure that national public declarations reflect the use of eu funds and that the european executive and the member states take firm action against fraudulent irregularities. the text also calls on the competent authorities in the member states to carry out better checks and to use all available information to avoid errors and irregular payments linked to european funds.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. i would like to stress the importance of distinguishing between legitimate generic medicines and counterfeit medicines in order not to disrupt the production and legitimate trade of generic medicines, and i would again call on those member states which have signed but not ratified the united nations protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to complete the ratification process as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ fraud rightly receives a great deal of public attention and damages the reputation of the european union. it is only logical that we should therefore do everything possible to prevent irregular expenditure and illegal income. i believe that the commission and the member states should cooperate more closely in the fight against corruption. for these reasons i voted in favour of this annual report.
in writing. ‒ a resolution to improve gender equality in the work of the european parliament was voted by a large majority. gender mainstreaming aims at equality between men and women and at combating discrimination. it was also decided that parliament will regularly adopt and implement a strategic plan for gender mainstreaming within parliament, which pursues the overall objective of promoting gender equality.
in writing. ‒ article 2 of the treaty on european union guarantees equality between women and men. furthermore, following a resolution adopted in 2003 by the european parliament, each parliamentary committee appoints one of its members to be responsible for gender mainstreaming. but it is a fight that must be constantly remembered. i therefore naturally supported this resolution, which stresses in particular the need for amendments on gender mainstreaming, gender impact assessments and its budgetisation in order to mainstream the gender dimension in all policy areas.
in writing. ‒ asylum policies and procedures, including the assessment of asylum applications, must take gender equality into account. forms of gender-based violence, including rape, sexual violence, female genital mutilation, forced marriage and domestic violence, should be a valid reason for seeking asylum in the eu, says the report we voted on yesterday in plenary. the text also recommends various measures to ensure that the specific needs of women are met throughout the asylum procedure and in reception centres, providing for: female translators and interpreters; specialised trauma counselling services for women who have suffered gender-based violence; childcare services during selection and asylum interviews; providing information to women on their right to make an asylum application independently of their spouse and to have a legal status independent of that of their spouse; gender-sensitive training for staff and legal support for women in reception centres.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation abstained from voting on this report. the n-va stands for an inclusive society with equal rights and obligations for all, and for a policy of equal opportunities tailored to and taking into account all the various target groups. this applies to all genders, particularly women and girls, but also to people with disabilities, older people, lgbtiqs, etc. we cannot accept any infringement of this equality, whether at work or in private life, including within the european parliament. the nva delegation is concerned that some of the measures proposed in the report could lead to more bureaucracy and an increase in the budget. they do not address the causes of discrimination and inequality. the n-va believes that a structural solution must be found and that, for example, the appointment of a permanent rapporteur on gender mainstreaming is not the answer to a more women-friendly european legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text, the content of which should be self-evident... the charter of fundamental rights contains specific provisions on the transversal principle of gender equality and article 6 of the eu treaty gives the charter the same legal value as the treaties. we must change attitudes, we must push for this change, and it will not happen by itself.
in writing. ‒ while gender equality may be recognised as a fundamental right in our european union, gender inequality still exists in our society today. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the integration of a gender perspective must be a necessary part of all policy-making and an absolute prerequisite for creating equal opportunities between men and women. the european parliament should therefore implement the principle of gender mainstreaming in its work. in that respect, this report is a necessary step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, parliament voted for a reform of migration and refugee policy in terms of gender-specific measures. it was particularly important to guarantee the safety of female asylum seekers, who often travel with young children. given the difficult situation of female refugees, i believe that the procedures and the examination of asylum applications need to take into account gender-specific elements such as the provision of female interlocutors and interpreters . that is why i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ of the one million migrants who arrived in the eu in 2015, 35% were women and children and today 55% of refugees arriving in greece are women. i have of course supported this report which seeks to meet the specific needs of protection of women who attempt a perilous journey in search of a better life or simply protection. this requires a new comprehensive set of guidelines on the gender dimension in the context of asylum and migration. but this also requires that migrant women receive precise information on the asylum procedure, their rights and the specific benefits that apply to them. they must be protected during their stay in refugee camps and, in the context of their asylum applications, have the right to request an investigator and an interpreter and to conduct an individual interview away from any third party.
in writing. ‒ in the unprecedented influx of migrants arriving in europe, the share of women and children has doubled, from a quarter to more than half of refugees since the beginning of 2016. i supported this report because it highlights the vulnerability of these women refugees who fled persecution in their home countries and who continue to be exposed, during their journey, to terrible physical and psychological attacks, sexual violence and human trafficking. on arrival at reception centres, these women often face new obstacles that make them even more vulnerable, especially as some eu member states deliberately degrade their reception conditions to deter migrants from showing up at their borders. for this reason, i support calls for all measures to ensure that the specific needs of women are taken into account throughout the asylum procedure and in reception centres. more generally, i renew my call for safe and legal routes to the eu to increase the safety of refugee women and to discourage the trafficking and exploitation of migrants by smugglers.
in writing. there is a real need to protect women and children. according to the un refugee agency, women and children accounted for up to 55 percent of refugees in january 2016. women are now arriving in greater numbers in europe. their vulnerability requires special attention it is about combating sexual exploitation, trafficking and prostitution. we must promote the detection of trafficking, identify lovers, train people who can detect trafficking, especially in ngos. we'll get through this if we all work together. only a comprehensive long-term strategy can overcome this crisis. we can only regret that our memory of the past is not long enough to provide an answer to the universal values we defend, to the ethics we advocate. this crisis must not destroy the europe of solidarity, justice and equality. it is about the dignity of women, the dignity of man and the dignity of the eu. if europe does nothing, history will record that it has turned away from its values.
in writing. ‒ asylum policies and procedures, including the assessment of asylum applications, must take gender equality into account. forms of gender-based violence, including rape, sexual violence, female genital mutilation, forced marriage and domestic violence, should be a valid reason for seeking asylum in the eu, says the report we voted on yesterday in plenary. the text also recommends various measures to ensure that the specific needs of women are met throughout the asylum procedure and in reception centres, providing for: female translators and interpreters; specialised trauma counselling services for women who have suffered gender-based violence; childcare services during selection and asylum interviews; information provided to women on their right to make an asylum application independently of their spouse and to have a legal status independent of that of their spouse; gender-sensitive training for staff and legal support for women in reception centres.
in writing. ‒ i voted for my colleague honeyball's text, considering that women represent on average one third of asylum seekers; whereas from the beginning of 2015 to november of the same year, approximately 900 000 people reached the european shores via the mediterranean, of which approximately 38% were women and children; whereas the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) reported that in january 2016, women and children accounted for 55% of those arriving in greece to seek asylum in the union; there are significant inequalities between women and men applying for asylum throughout the european union. too many people, including many women, have already lost their lives on this journey of hope!
in writing. ‒ today in strasbourg, the report by mary honneybal was voted in favour. an important step towards improving the lot of the many female refugees who often face sexual exploitation during their passage to and stay in europe. five measures are absolutely necessary: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected, including the right to safe routes, safe accommodation, the right to be assisted in the asylum procedure by female interpreters and to be interviewed by female interviewers.
"blue card" question. what is it? i am pleased to note that you are also talking about the 10 000 missing children. we put a written question on this last week with more than 40 alde members and asked that it be put on the agenda here too. what does your group propose to do to find the 10,000 missing children? i went to talk to europol, i went to talk to missing children europe. we cannot afford to have 10 000 children lost in our territory in 2016.
in the past, european leaders and governments have not paid sufficient attention to european border policy. this has made us dependent on turkey. we can't even control our own borders anymore. the european union has become a blackmailing machine. the turks are now taking full advantage of that. the eu has followed the lax merkel line for too long and is therefore in bad shape today. the structural solution is clear to the nva: what is happening today is particularly painful for the european union. this is not a repeat. we must do everything we can to ensure that the eu can fully reap its own rewards and not remain dependent on countries like turkey. so we have to close the routes to western europe, we have to focus fully on reception in our own region and implement a strong push-back policy. we must also set strict limits and therefore set strict quotas for inflows.
tomorrow we'll vote on something that should be taken for granted: the european institutions are pushing for better legislation. only european action where necessary, simple and easily applicable legislation and avoidance of unnecessary administrative burdens. and what do we see? we see that the agreement does not reflect that. the way in which the agreement was reached leaves much to be desired. if, of course, you let guy verhofstadt, who represents the old europe, negotiate for the european parliament, apart from any reality, you end up in a non-representative situation. today he's the big absentee here again, so that just confirms it. the lack of transparency throughout the process has only served to facilitate this. so let this be a lesson for the future. we need a new wind in europe, the old europe is no more!
in writing. the three members of the belgian ps elected to this parliament voted against this agreement because they believe that, under the guise of simplifying european legislation, the refit programme seriously threatens many provisions relating to social protection, environmental protection and public health. europe must now protect its citizens and workers even more than before the long period of austerity. we voted against this because, apart from this serious concern, the interinstitutional approach is unbalanced in that it only provides for consultation of the european parliament by the european commission and the council in the implementation of refit. this is clearly insufficient in view of the threats to the safety and health of workers and, more generally, of european citizens.
no proposal is perfect. what mrs thyssen is proposing will not be good for everyone either. for some it is going too far and for others it is not going far enough. the proposal is at least balanced, and that is a very great merit. the interests of workers are taken into account and a level playing field is created for enterprises. within the limits of the commission's powers, it has succeeded in implementing its principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place without directly intervening in national wage formation. this deserves our recognition. the commission is making a good start with the proposal, but it is up to us as parliament and the member states to get the ball rolling. in order to help mitigate the abuses of posting, those member states should also, in particular, focus on monitoring and information exchange. we all know that only effective monitoring of legislation and intensive cooperation between member states, preferably in digital form, can provide the necessary guarantees to tackle the problem of social dumping. we must urgently take action here too if we are to restore the credibility of the european project to the citizens.
madam president, commissioner, when the president of the commission announced his ambition to achieve a triple a for the european union, he sent a clear message: we must give social issues the same importance as we give economic issues. this is the very foundation of a socially regulated market economy. the idea of 'triple a' indicates a direction and a will, but it must now be given substance. what parameters should be taken into account? what are the indicators for assessing progress and policies? to move in this direction, the commission would be wise to build on the existing arrangements. i am thinking of social rating agencies like vigeo in france or eiris in the uk. to earn the triple a social status requires effective legislation, but this is not enough. as with the revision of the posting of workers directive, it is essential to have effective inspection services that can monitor, but also advise and inform the actors. it is a key issue for the credibility of the european union, but above all for reconciling citizens with the european project. thank you for your work, commissioner.
as one of the youngest members of parliament and as coordinator of the epp youth group here in parliament, i would like to stress the need to put the problems of young people at the heart of the union's social policy. the single market and the many benefits it offers are taken for granted by my generation, but at the same time we are also the biggest losers from the recent financial and monetary crisis and we inherit an imperfect union which is looking for a new impetus. it is therefore extremely important that my generation should be given the signal that europe's identity is not only defined by freedom of movement and economy, but also and above all by its social heart. we can give that signal by actively engaging in activating, motivating and stimulating young people. despite a recovering labor market, one figure remains the same: one in five young people is out of work and that is a real shame. the commissioner has been playing the game briefly with the youth employment initiative. she made more money faster, and with success. youth unemployment in brussels falls for the 33rd month in a row. but one swallow does not make spring: there is still a lot of work to be done, such as the agenda for new skills for europe, which i will be looking at very carefully. labour mobility must also be improved and, above all, made more equitable. a social europe is a europe where the rules are the same for everyone. my generation can never again be called "the lost generation". that is why europe can and must become much more social. the responsibility for its success lies with all of us here.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, we are facing today - enough has been said - formidable challenges. firstly, there is the much too low level of economic growth, especially investment, which results in too high unemployment among young people, which is still unbearable. then there is the scale of the migratory pressure, which undermines the cohesion of the union, destroys solidarity and risks undermining the very foundations of the union. there is also the threat of terrorism, which, although latent today, is still fraught with threats of carnage and massacre. finally, there is the catastrophic situation of the southern periphery of the mediterranean and the poverty of central africa, two regions where horrors are a daily occurrence and where poverty rivals the sad record of intolerable things. in the face of such challenges, the alde group's budgetary priorities for 2017 are very clear: 1) promoting innovation and investment and, therefore, growth for jobs; 2) supporting the development of smes, the real backbone of the european economy; 3) relaunch the youth initiative; 4) manage and not just bear the pressure of migration, including by organising humanitarian corridors, establishing safe zones and negotiating fair partnerships and not bargaining based on blackmail; the european union must be able to respond to the geostrategic imbalances which exist in our neighbourhood and which require decisive action by our union to combat their causes. madam president, commissioner, mr rapporteur, it is on the basis of these priorities that we will actively participate in the discussions on the 2017 budget, which you are responsible for drawing up.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i understand that it is forbidden to look at mr kamall, but anyway i am going to surprise mr kamall, because essentially i am in agreement with him on the critical points he has made on the proposal that is on the table. i do not deny that we need practical and technical arrangements with turkey as part of a global approach, but this is not a practical or technical arrangement. it is a deal with turkey in which we outsource our problems. it is a deal in which we are, in fact, giving the entrance keys to the gates of europe into the hands of turkey, to the successors of the ottoman empire, to erdoğan – should even say maybe to sultan erdoğan. he shall now decide on the entrance into the european union. because what is the deal in fact? the deal is that we are blocking, collectively, entrance to the european union for syrians and for other people, and it is turkey which shall decide, on an individual basis, who is a refugee who can enter, in a trade-off, one to one. some syrians will maybe enter but, for example, afghanis who are fleeing from is in afghanistan, may not. a kurd who wants to leave iraq or maybe another country shall certainly not be allowed to enter under that scheme. i have to tell you i am on the same side as mr kamall for once. i find this deal hugely problematic because it is a type of collective refoulement and, in my eyes, this is forbidden by the geneva convention. moreover, you have to know, dear colleagues, that turkey is a very poor member of the geneva convention. it has ratified a number of protocols. one example is that turkey does not give political asylum to syrians; it only gives political asylum to refugees from countries belonging to the council of europe. secondly, it does not give asylum, for example, to victims of internal civil conflicts, such as the conflict raging for the moment in the south—east of turkey. so i think it is hugely problematic to ask a country which has not fully accepted all the protocols of the geneva convention to do the business. it is like the americans saying to the mexicans, you manage the borders in the future. that is what we are doing. i think it is hugely problematic. secondly, while i understand the reasoning – which mr dombrovskis and mrs plasschaert repeated this morning – that this is the way to stop the smugglers and the only way to stop human trafficking, i am absolutely not of that opinion. i think the opposite will happen. by reducing the entrance points to the european union in such a narrow way as we are doing now, by giving only turkey the possibility on an individual basis to grant entry to the european union, desperate refugees are going to look to alternative routes and in a few weeks we will have again a debate in this parliament about the revival of the lampedusa route. we are going to have a debate about a new route in albania, a new route via malta, a new route in bulgaria and it will not solve the problem because the problem cannot be solved by others, by third countries, but it has to be solved by us, the european union. that is what we lack at the moment. my plea to you, mr dombrovskis and mrs plasschaert, is to now do what is necessary on the next count. first, take a decision on the european border and coast guard. it is fantastic that you tell us we are making progress, but we have been making progress for months. why not use article 78, paragraph 3 of the treaty? article 78 gives you the possibility to take emergency measures in case of an influx into the european union of refugees and of migrants, but you are not doing it. you do not need legislation from this parliament and the council. you can do it based on the actual treaty. do it. start with this border guards on the border with greece and turkey. secondly, as for the eur 3 billion, how many times are we going to decide on the eur 3 billion? can the member states perhaps pay the eur 3 billion for once and pay it not through the turkish authorities, not through turkey’s ngos, but directly in the camps to the refugees so that they no longer have to live with usd 7 per month. that is the reason they come to us, because they have to survive with usd 7 a month. we have to put this eur 3 billion into direct financial aid to the refugees. finally, what we also need to do is to strengthen our asylum system, and change the dublin system. you know what we are doing, in fact? we are not changing the dublin system now. no. we have put turkey inside the dublin system. that is what we have decided, instead of changing the dublin system definitely and making a fair share between the member states of the european union. so, in the beginning i was of the opinion that maybe this deal could help, but the more i look at it, the more i am critical of it, and the more sceptical i am. i have one plea to mrs plasschaert: ask mr tusk to redo and remake his copy and to go for real european action. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer.– i did not understand the question very well, as this was ‘lost in translation’ perhaps – something about schengen and non—schengen. but i think that it is clear that there is a common solution; it is not a question of schengen alone. the problem, however, is the following. it is like with the euro: we started with the euro and we made the mistake of not having a government of the euro treasury. in schengen we made the same mistake: we started with schengen and then afterwards we said ‘oh, we do not have a european border and coastguard to protect schengen. oh, we do not have a common asylum system’. so we have to learn the lessons now and not start to say ‘okay, here come the turks who are going to solve our problem’. no, it is we who have to take our responsibility, inside and outside schengen.
for the greens/efa group mr president, moral bankruptcy, these are the words that come to mind following the european council on monday. moral failure, when instead of sanctioning it, the red carpet is rolled out to a regime that subjects the judiciary and the police to the will of one man, that muzzles and imprisons any free press, that disqualifies any democratic opposition and that, in order to win an election, reignites civil war and bombs its own people. the moral failure of measuring the reception of syrian war refugees by the number of those who will attempt to reach the european union by less legal routes, of course, minus those who will die en route. money, visas, the resumption of the accession process, nothing is too much to seduce putin of the sublime porte, all because a majority of the member states of the union, unlike germany, have taken the side of "no such thing, no such barbarians in our country", some in the name of a thunderous defence of the myth of a white and christian europe, others, more prosaically, to defend the tourist season in the flemish kust, not to mention all those who hide behind it cynically and cowardly. there is still time, ladies and gentlemen, heads of state and government, to take action and adopt measures next week that will make the european union live up to its responsibilities, both moral and legal. you're right, we need to create a safe and legal pathway to the european union. but this path cannot be reserved for syrians only as far as i know, iraq, afghanistan and yemen are equally war zones. it cannot be based on the number of asylum seekers rejected and returned to turkey. i would remind you that under the geneva convention, every refugee or asylum seeker has the right to an individual examination of his application. if you are able to find three, six or more, whatever billions to promote the welcome in turkey, i think we, the rich europe, should be able to do at least as much for the welcome here. i would remind you that last year the european union took in - hold on - 0.25% of its population. this is 100 times less than the number of refugees hosted by a fragile country like lebanon, a country like jordan and much more than turkey, which needs our help. so yes, to put this policy in place, we will have to talk to turkey. but the stronger our common determination to meet our responsibilities, the stronger we will be against erdoğan, because, you see, turkey is fragile geopolitically and economically. it needs the european union at least as much as turkey needs europe. the first condition for the success of such a policy is that we europeans act together. "together we create". i would like to address two countries in particular. mrs hennis-plasschaert, you are from the netherlands and you are currently holding the presidency of the council of the union. i remind you that your country is the home of political liberalism. when europe was faced with absolutism and religious wars, the netherlands was able to turn itself into a land of welcome for all european refugees. as for france, rather than displaying a facade of solidarity while letting its prime minister teach the chancellor a puerile lesson, rather than losing its honour by handing over the legion of the same name to the crown prince of the islamic state - i mean saudi arabia - i would like it to assume its responsibilities to deserve the title of "homeland of human rights", which it drapes over itself a little more often than it does, to take its fair share in welcoming refugees and to assume its share of leadership that europe lacks so much. finally, and i will end with this, mr president, in the face of the kaczyński, orbán, fico, morano, pegida and le pen who are constantly invoking a christian europe to build our continent into a fortress, i would like to recall the words spoken here 18 months ago by pope francis. he said that we must tackle the issue of migration together. we cannot allow the mediterranean to become a vast graveyard. he told us that europe would be able to deal with the problems of immigration: firstly, if it could clearly define its own cultural identity and put in place adequate legislation capable, at the same time, of protecting the rights of european citizens and guaranteeing the reception of migrants; secondly, whether it adopts fair, courageous and concrete policies which help the countries of origin to resolve their internal conflicts, the main cause of the phenomenon, instead of self-interested policies which fuel these conflicts. according to pope francis, it is necessary to act on both causes and effects. more recently, he reminded us that a person who wants to build walls and not bridges is not a christian. i remind you that what we put on our banknotes, ladies and gentlemen, are bridges and not walls. you know what you have to do.
"blue card" question. what is it? i have a question about the clarity of the debate. i've been listening to you very carefully. i too am very familiar with ukip's position on immigration and illegal migration, a position with which i very often agree wholeheartedly. did you speak here today on behalf of the whole of the efdd group or only on behalf of your own party?
in your ideology of the european union, the ideology of the majority here in the european parliament, the ideology of the humanitarian problem, the mere refugee problem - which has nothing to do with material matters, nothing to do with legal immigration, nothing to do with the rush to our prosperity - in that ideological scheme you have now started and completed negotiations with the turks and have established a linkage of that pattern of values by, first of all, immediately returning such things as two longstanding political demands of the turks, the visas for 80 million turks, and opening a new chapter for the accession negotiations. you have also linked the value system to follow the money, money! three billion, then six billion! even the liberal group leader here stuck the term outsourcing, a term from the business world, on it. so you yourself have mutilated your values and dragged them into the dark caverns of blackmailing politics, brute force and dirty business. your open borders policy is becoming a nightmare for the people of europe, leaving nothing but deep anger and great fear, a great fear which we represent here. this is not the european union, this is a european non-union. we're here to give voice to that anger and that fear. we are the new european patriots in the words of martin luther. here we are, we can't help it.
mr president, like the majority of european citizens, i have never been in favour of turkey joining the european union. i also find it very unpleasant that the union is rushing to allow all turkish citizens who wish to enter its territory without a visa from the end of june. i also have no confidence in mr erdoğan, whose megalomania, bad faith and brutality are unbearable. as you will have understood, i am not happy with the draft agreement with turkey on the table, which i believe will encounter considerable legal difficulties in its implementation. but in the present circumstances and in the absence of anything better in the immediate future, i will accept it, even if the price to pay seems excessive to me and turkey has acted more like a singer than a loyal partner. i do it because i believe in two things. firstly, the european union is already very fragile, and it is in danger of collapsing if this year and next year one or two million more asylum seekers arrive in the greatest disorder on the shores of the greek islands and try to make their way across the barbed wire borders. secondly, we have no right to turn greece into a giant calais jungle, where tens if not hundreds of thousands of migrants will be living in the worst conditions for years to come.
member of the commission. mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the commission for its work in this area and to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would also like to join the ranks of those who talk about the need for something. yes, we need a political solution in syria, we need a global solution to the flow of migration, we also need a sustainable and functional protection of our external borders. but i think there is also a 'face reality' and that means we need a short-term solution. and for a short-term solution, it is necessary to conclude a working agreement with turkey as well. we'll have to work on that. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal. it was also a day which showed that only a european solution is possible, involving all the parties involved. this solution must be developed by all, decided by all and finally implemented by all. it's the only way it works. we're not going to get there by ourselves. we must be clear about this, as monday showed. i would like to briefly touch on some of the points that have been raised again and again, both as regards possible visa liberalization and an accelerated start to accession negotiations. i can assure you - at least on behalf of the commission - that this is not at the expense of standards, principles, respect for human rights, the independence of the judiciary and so on. that will be the subject of the judgments. if you want to join the european union, you have to accept our rules of the game. it's not like we're just going around saying, "become a member, there's a special rate here. - no, please! if you want to do that, you have to negotiate with us in a serious and orderly way. in the case of visa liberalisation, which is not so much in the spotlight, part of such an agreement is also a readmission agreement, which means that turkey must take back migrants from all the member states of the european union if asylum cannot be granted. this too is progress in the interests of europe. now, to the three or six billion euros. i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that i am not in favour of the idea of a european parliament. you won't see a penny, because the money is managed directly by us. but we have not only already provided funds, we have already paid for them. i was in east anatolia on friday, in gaziantep and in another city, and i saw a refugee camp there myself. i have to pay tribute to the turkish government and to the international organizations for the way in which the refugees are being housed: in a humane environment, in a refugee camp where everything is available - supermarkets, schools, even high schools, where there are 3,800 tents for 18,000 inhabitants, but they are properly supervised. i can tell you this: for example, by providing 'just' 40 million euros, we have ensured that 300 000 refugees in turkish camps are provided with food for six months. we have used 55 million euros to ensure that 200 000 children and young people can attend school for a whole year. so, you see, with relatively little expense, we can ensure that the people in the region have a safe home. and i can also tell you, by the way, i've spoken to many syrian refugees in eastern anatolia. they all want to return to syria as soon as possible, they don't want to go to europe. we must therefore: a) work towards a political solution, but also b) ensure that they can live in decent conditions where they are currently and that, above all, children and young people have a perspective by having a proper education. i have learned something from this visit: that we must also take greater care to promote economic activities, so that jobs are created and refugees have an opportunity to become active. monday was an important step. but it is clear that it is president tusk's job to negotiate the final outcome here. i hope that this will be achieved in a european spirit of solidarity, cooperation and ultimately also of unanimous implementation.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, as i said earlier this morning, more work is needed with turkey and that is why leaders have tasked president tusk to take forward the proposals and work out the details with turkey by the march european council. details count so not all questions can be answered in detail at this stage. let there be no mistake, european heads of state and government insisted – and have said explicitly in their statement – that work on the proposals will respect european and international law. i fully agree with mr weber that all this should be taking place in partnership with turkey, so no dependency. let me be clear that the aim is not simply to stop refugees from coming. the aim is to move from irregular to legal controlled migration. the aim is to put an end to people dying at sea. and to be clear once more, we are not selling out on our values. we are speeding up, but not compromising, on the roadmap for visa liberalisation. the conditionality remains in place and the same goes for the accession negotiation chapters. so let me stress once again that accession and visa liberalisation are both condition—based processes, based on well-known conditions. so whatever arrangements we agree with turkey, it will have to respect eu and international law. the statement of the european council of 7 march states this clearly. we cannot – and will not – cut corners when it comes to our legal obligations. at the same time, i would like to underline that the moral high ground is a luxury we cannot afford. as mr reul said, there is no such thing at this very moment as perfection. already, under the existing greece—turkey readmission agreement, as well as under the eu—turkey readmission agreements, turkey is expected to readmit all irregular migrants not in need of international protection that have transited through turkish territory. the eu and turkey have to agree to skill up and accelerate the implementation of these commitments, which have started already with the transfer from greece to turkey of over 300 irregular migrants. we will expect turkey to live up to international obligations, such as the principle of non-refoulement, and let us not forget that currently over 2.5 million refugees already enjoy protection in turkey. finally, to those who invoked the geneva convention, i understand your concerns but, as i said, we will not cut corners when it comes to our legal obligation. there is no such thing as a trade—off. i would ask at the same time whether you truly think that the current situation, in which people are forced to make a dangerous journey in a little boat, is in line with international law? are the dead bodies washing up on turkish and greek shores in line with national law? i do not think so. we need to do everything in our power to break this preferred model of the people smugglers. that is our moral obligation and mr kamal is right that the real enemies are not the refugees. the smugglers are our enemies. to conclude – because it is a bit crowded in the chamber right now – i would like to end with some words on the takeover of zaman by the turkish authorities. our concerns were clearly raised in the meeting with the turkish prime minister which my prime minister and chancellor merkel had on sunday, as well as the meeting of the 28 on monday. media freedom, the freedom of speech, is not negotiable and clearly turkey will need to improve its track record in this field. there is no such thing as turning a blind eye. to conclude, and in reply to mrs in 't veld, i would thank you so much for reminding me of my own statements years ago. i continue to stand by them. i would say, with the benefit of hindsight, that it was quite visionary. i asked for european solutions back then and i will continue to ask for european solutions. (applause)
in writing. the main outcome of this summit is that we can finally put an end to the chaos and to this humanitarian catastrophe, where refugees are still dying every week in european waters. there are no simple solutions to the tragedy that is unfolding on our borders. it is clear to everyone that we need a stronger europe, that we need to focus on the european border and coast guard and on greater solidarity. but we also need to focus on better reception in the refugee camps and to dry up the business model of smugglers. the draft agreement with turkey is far from ideal, but it is at least an important step forward that turkey is taking economic refugees back more quickly and is being involved in the union's relocation plan. this does not mean that we are turning a blind eye to the problems in turkey or that turkey will become a member of the eu tomorrow. turkey cannot join the eu today, nor tomorrow, because it is going in the wrong direction with regard to freedom of the press. next week, a new summit should be a winner. our priority remains to ensure that people do not drown at sea and that the most vulnerable, the people who need protection, are protected.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of clarity and transparency, the purpose of this proposal, which i have approved, is to codify council directive 1999/32/ec of 26 april 1999 relating to a reduction in the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels. the proposed new directive would replace the various acts incorporated therein. it preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely groups it together by making the only formal changes required by the codification operation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the straightforward codification of the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on a reduction in the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels. this proposal for a directive has not been substantially amended. the codification has the double merit of clarity and conciseness. it allows users to consult only one authentic text and reduces the volume of the 'acquis communautaire', which includes all the binding legal acts adopted by the european institutions.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels and thereby to reduce the harmful effects of these emissions on man and the environment. acidification and the release of sulphur dioxide into the atmosphere cause damage to fragile ecosystems, decrease biodiversity, reduce amenity value and harm crops and forest growth. sulphur dioxide pollution can also have significant effects on human health, especially among the population suffering from respiratory conditions. the text adopted, which i supported, therefore sets the maximum sulphur content of heavy fuel oil, gas oil, marine gas oil and marine diesel used in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague mr ferrara's text, in accordance with the opinion of the experts in our political group.
in writing. ‒ this report regulates the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels to reduce harmful air pollution. this is a simple codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of clarity and transparency, the purpose of this proposal, which i have approved, is to codify council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 to prevent the diversion of certain essential medicines to eu countries. the proposed new regulation would replace the various acts incorporated in it. it preserves the substance of the text in its entirety and merely groups it together by making only the formal changes required by the codification operation.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council codifying council regulation (ec) no 953/2003 of 26 may 2003 to prevent the diversion of certain essential medicines to countries of the european union, as this proposal does not alter the substance in any way. the codification of the acquis communautaire makes it possible to improve the accessibility of community legislation. it has the merit of clarity, efficiency and conciseness. it ensures greater legal certainty and improves the quality of texts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which, in the light of the report of the committee on legal affairs of the european parliament, considers that the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance. parliament therefore endorsed the commission proposal as adapted to the recommendations of the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission and instructed its president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission and to the national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to prevent the diversion of certain essential medicines to eu countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is simply a codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which is in line with the need for greater transparency on tax matters in the european union and in its relations with third countries. this amending protocol implements the oecd global standard between the eu member states and andorra.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement between the eu and the principality of andorra to combat tax fraud and evasion. under this agreement, which follows other transparency agreements, the eu and andorra will now automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents (as of 2018 for information collected since 1 january 2017). this information will cover income and bank balances and income from the sale of capital. the principality of andorra will therefore soon apply measures equivalent to those in force in the eu since march 2014 and will also comply with the 2014 global standard on the automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the oecd.
in writing. tax evasion is a major challenge today. it contributes to the erosion of public finances. to avoid this, it is essential to put in place mechanisms to put an end to such practices of concealing funds. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament has approved the new agreement between the eu and andorra, which will provide for an automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of their respective residents. we must make sure that taxes are actually paid. bilateral cooperation will not be enough. multilateral and global initiatives must become a priority.
in writing. ‒ today, in strasbourg, we approved an eu-andorra agreement, which will make it more difficult for european citizens to hide money from the tax authorities in the principality's bank accounts. the text of the agreement provides that the union and andorra will exchange automatically information on the financial accounts of their respective residents as from 2018 for information collected since 1 january 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which provides that the member states of the european union and andorra will automatically exchange, as from 2018, information on the financial accounts of their respective residents collected since 1 january 2017. the aim is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets on which tax has not been paid. the agreement aims to ensure that andorra applies enhanced measures equivalent to those provided for in the union legal framework updated in december 2014 (amending the administrative cooperation directive, 'acd2') and complies with the automatic exchange of financial account information recommended by the oecd global standard 2014. it will also benefit andorra, which recently reformed its tax system by introducing personal income tax for its residents.
in writing. ‒ i support this agreement, which aims to strengthen cooperation between the european union and andorra in order to achieve greater transparency in the exchange of financial and banking data and to prevent tax fraud in border regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing fausto parente as executive director for a five-year term.
in writing. ‒ considering that the term of office of the current executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) expired on 31 march 2016 and that on 28 january 2016 the board of supervisors of the eiopa had proposed, in an open selection procedure, to appoint fausto parente as executive director for a five-year term, the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament had conducted a hearing with him which was very satisfactory. the european parliament has therefore approved the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of the eaapp.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for the appointment of the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), which is the result of a broad compromise between the political groups.
in writing. ‒ i support the appointment of fausto parente as the new director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. mr parente has had a long and successful career in this field and i think he will do an excellent job as executive director.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a directive is part of the package to strengthen the rights of individuals in criminal proceedings. the package includes, in addition to this proposal, a directive on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and a directive on legal aid for persons prosecuted in criminal proceedings. the report, which i have approved, is important because, for example, today only six member states have prosecutorial bodies dedicated to children and nine countries do not even have specialised courts. the proposal for a directive and the amendments to this report will therefore bring a considerable increase in certain member states in the procedural guarantees afforded to children. examples include: children's right to full and comprehensible information from the beginning of the proceedings, right to legal assistance at every stage of the proceedings, right to see parental authority before any questioning, right to be subject to a personalised assessment from the beginning of the proceedings, right to separation between adults and children in the event of provisional detention, medical examination from the beginning of the proceedings to improve the health or well-being of the child, etc.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of provisions to ensure that children prosecuted for an offence can benefit from a fair trial. it is a complex issue which requires a balance between the need to establish the responsibility for the offence and the need to take into account the vulnerability and specific needs of minors. i am satisfied with the guarantees provided, starting with the right to be assisted by a lawyer and to be accompanied by the holder of parental responsibility during most of the proceedings; the right to an individual assessment by qualified staff and to a medical examination if the minor is deprived of liberty; ensuring that deprivation of liberty is imposed on children only as a last resort and for the shortest appropriate period of time; the right of the minor to be informed promptly of his or her rights and of the progress of the proceedings; the right to privacy during criminal proceedings or specific training for judges, prosecutors and other professionals involved in criminal proceedings involving children.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by parliament of its position on the draft directive on procedural guarantees for children suspected or prosecuted in criminal proceedings. as an essential tool of the right to a fair trial, this new legislation represents a significant step forward in the protection of persons prosecuted in criminal proceedings. given the vulnerability of children and the need to prioritise the best interests of the child, the establishment of common european minimum standards was a necessity to strengthen the protection of minors involved in legal proceedings. it is essential that these children enjoy the same level of protection and the same rights throughout the union. the provisions on the deprivation of liberty of minors are of particular importance: detention should be used only as a last resort and, where appropriate, the child should be detained separately from adults. in general, it is important that all decisions taken in relation to minors in criminal proceedings take due account of the best interests of the child. i am also pleased that this legislation has taken a further step towards the creation of a european area of justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my whole political group for this text which harmonises the legal protection of children suspected or accused of a crime, promising them a fair trial wherever they are in europe. it is currently impossible to obtain european statistics on the number of children who are brought to justice each year. in belgium, in 2010, 2 062 minors were convicted of criminal activity and they represented 0.8% of the prison population. perhaps more worryingly, 96 children were tried by adult courts in criminal cases in 2011, a 72% increase from the previous year. in such circumstances, it is important that the child understands the legal procedure he or she is facing, that he or she is accompanied by a lawyer and a parent, and that he or she is given a right to individual assessment in order to prioritise the prevention of reoffending. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament supported, at its plenary session in strasbourg on wednesday afternoon, new provisions to ensure that children suspected or prosecuted of a crime receive a fair trial. the directive, informally agreed with the council last december, recognises the right of any minor to be assisted by a lawyer and to be accompanied by the holder of parental responsibility (or another appropriate adult) for most of the proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the introduction of 'procedural safeguards for children suspected or accused of criminal offences', which is part of the 'roadmap to strengthen the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings' adopted by the council on 30 november 2009, along with several other measures previously adopted and those currently under discussion.
in writing. ‒ i support this text which better guarantees the procedural safeguards for minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. in such a situation, it is important that the minor understands the legal procedure and is accompanied by a lawyer and a family member. only in this way will the right to a fair trial be adequately guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted by a large majority a resolution setting out the general guidelines for the preparation of the commission's 2017 budget. in this resolution parliament had set out what it considered to be the strongest priorities for the next budget, which also correspond to my personal views. i have also said that we should consider ways in which the eu budget can help to bring the member states into a more balanced attitude towards solidarity between themselves, and i support an amendment to that effect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out parliament's main priorities for the establishment of the 2017 budget. these include financing the migration crisis and related european measures, boosting public and private investment, the youth employment initiative and support for smes. the report also calls for greater flexibility in member states' spending in areas such as tackling unemployment, poverty and inequality, security threats and the migrant and refugee crisis. the report also regrets that corporate tax avoidance has caused huge losses of tax revenue for the member states and, consequently, a decrease in their contribution to the union budget!
in writing. ‒ this report calls for a number of measures which the n-va does not support. that is why the nva delegation decided to vote against this dossier. in 2016, the funding for asylum and migration (under the security and citizenship chapter) almost doubled compared to 2015. the n-va supports the increase in the budget for this chapter because two eu agencies, frontex and the european asylum support office, were suddenly given a lot of extra powers last year. it is important that the commission first look for funds in the eu portfolio for 2017 that are not or are not being used efficiently. these resources should then be used to address the refugee crisis. one area where eu funds need to be better used, including to improve local reception of refugees, is in development aid. these matters are not adequately covered in the report. the rapporteur also calls for a fundamental reform of the system of own resources, something which the n-va does not agree with.
in writing. the 2017 budget will face a multitude of challenges in its internal and external policies. this is to help economic recovery and job creation in a climate of particularly weak economic recovery, to take on the migrant and refugee crisis that will extend beyond 2016, to contain any terrorist threat and any extremist act, etc. in the face of these problems, the multiannual framework must be flexible. we have entered a new era of budgetary responsiveness. the union has responded to the majority of crises by creating funds (managed by the member states). it is clear that if our states are increasingly called upon to contribute to these funds, over which the institutions have less control, they will no longer be able to honour their commitments under the cohesion policies. so instead of having a multitude of instruments, can we not imagine that in a crisis situation the union budget could be increased? the principle of the unity of the budget and its legibility must be safeguarded.
in writing. ‒ tackling the dramatic migration and refugee crises and, at the same time, investing more and better to accelerate today's slow economic recovery should continue to be the union's budgetary priorities for next year! that is what we voted for this afternoon in the plenary in a resolution on the guidelines for the european budget for 2017. the text adopted thus emphasises the problems of long-term and youth unemployment, as well as the disparities in economic development in the union, and indicates that the refugee crisis will not be temporary.
in writing. ‒ i believe that a thorough reform of the union's own resources system is necessary and attach great political importance to the work of the high level group on own resources set up under the mff 2014-2020 agreement. i expect the commission and the council to take into account the conclusions of this work, which should be formulated by the end of 2016 at the latest, as well as any potential new own resources. the primary objective of the reform of own resources is to make the revenue side of the union budget more autonomous, stable, simple, fair, sustainable and predictable, to reduce the burden of excessive expenditure on national budgets and to improve transparency and visibility for citizens, without increasing the overall tax burden on citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these guidelines. the european union budget has proved to be a crucial instrument in addressing recent crises and meeting needs that could not have been anticipated during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, such as the refugee crisis or geopolitical tensions in europe's neighbours.
mr president, the three ps members of this parliament voted against this agreement because it is unbalanced and in fact provides that parliament is only consulted by the european commission and the council. the simple consultation of a co-legislator is obviously not enough in these fundamental matters. the ps also considers that refit, which is included in the agreement, represents a danger and a means of destruction and threat to social protection, environmental protection and public health rules. that is why we felt that there was no way of accepting this institutional agreement. europe is sick today. it is in great need of social integration, of laws that go towards greater fiscal and social harmonization. the text does not meet these basic expectations.
in writing. ‒ in may 2015, the commission published a new interinstitutional agreement aimed at making the work of the eu's main institutions parliament, council and commission more efficient. given that the agreement brings about increased transparency of the legislative process, this decision is expressly welcomed.
in writing. ‒ the three members of the belgian ps elected to this parliament voted against this agreement because they believe that, under the guise of simplifying european legislation, the refit programme seriously threatens many provisions relating to social protection, environmental protection and public health. europe must now protect its citizens and workers even more than before the long period of austerity. we voted against this because, apart from this serious concern, the interinstitutional approach is unbalanced in that it only provides for consultation of the european parliament by the european commission and the council in the implementation of refit. this is clearly insufficient in view of the threats to the safety and health of workers and, more generally, of european citizens.
in writing. - i supported this deal. i encourage any initiative aimed at improving the planning, quality and transparency of the european legislative process. it is essential to increase public understanding of how the eu prepares its legislation, to develop a more open relationship between the institutions with a view to achieving a better legislative process in the interests of all citizens of the union. i am particularly sensitive to impact assessments which are an essential step in the european legislative process and which should include not only the economic, environmental and social consequences of the proposed legislation but also, where possible, the impact in terms of competitiveness as well as the administrative burdens, taking into account in particular small businesses, digital aspects and territorial impact. i am in favour of greater involvement of meps in the elaboration of the eu's long-term priorities and of consultation of parliament on proposals that remove or simplify draft legislation. finally, i also call for greater transparency in informal tripartite negotiations, the keeping of a register of 'delegated acts' and a database on the state of play of legislative proposals.
in writing. it was time to renegotiate the 2003 interinstitutional agreement to take account of the new legislative environment created by the lisbon treaty, consolidate existing good practices and update the agreement in line with the better regulation programme. we have been committed to strengthening democracy, in particular by improving transparency, and to reducing bureaucracy. this high-quality agreement is a strong signal for us to work better together, in accordance with our competences. as such, impact assessments will enable us to assess the quality of european legislation on a recurrent basis. finally, i would like to reiterate the importance i attach to political dialogue with national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which is an agreement between the european institutions to improve the planning, quality and transparency of the legislative process. as is often the case with this type of arrangement, not everything is perfect. however, in view of certain developments, it was important that this text be adopted. it is no secret that i have never been a great supporter of impact assessments, which can be a danger to the freedom of political decision-making. fortunately, this text responds favourably to my fears by clearly stating that these analyses 'do not replace political decisions taken in the framework of the democratic decision-making process'. i am also pleased to note that the agreement mentions that updating and simplifying legislation must not impede the objectives of the legislation. i was not in favour of simplifying legislation by undermining the rights of european workers. among the negative points, we should highlight the lack of agreement to create a common, mandatory and legally binding transparency register for lobbyists. i regret it all the more because i voted in favour of this register in plenary and i will not hesitate to do so again in the future.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation has serious reservations about the way in which the interinstitutional agreement has been reached. this was mostly done behind closed doors. the delegation believes that this does not in any way contribute to the basic principles of better regulation. the mandate of the negotiator for the european parliament was also discussed only to a very limited extent. the nva delegation believes that this undermines the democratic quality of the european parliament. the text voted on is a decision of the european parliament, in response to the iia. the n-va is pleased to have succeeded in adding to this text some essential remarks such as a clear objective of reducing burdens, the independence of the body responsible for assessing the impact of certain legislative proposals and a reference to the sme and competitiveness test (two essential instruments for assessing the impact of legislation on small enterprises and competition). the inclusion of these important points gives the n-va the decisive factor in supporting this text, which precedes the iia. the n-va is particularly interested in better regulation: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this interinstitutional agreement. the aim of this agreement is to improve the interinstitutional legislative process and to reduce as much as possible both over-regulation and the administrative burden on citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ parliament has voted against the extension of the agreement on the fight against cigarette smuggling and counterfeiting with the tobacco group philip morris international, which i very much welcome. beyond the fact that i cannot in principle approve of agreements with the tobacco industry, it is important to use the existing international (who framework convention on tobacco control) and european (eu tobacco directive) legal instruments in the fight against smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ parliament sent a clear signal to the european commission today: the eu-philip morris international (pmi) tobacco agreement may not be renewed, extended or renegotiated. the fight against illicit trade and smuggling of cigarettes must remain a priority, a fortiori for small countries with open economies. the proceeds of this serious crime are used to finance other forms of organised crime. moreover, illicit cigarettes usually do not meet product standards and are therefore even more dangerous to public health than legal products. finally, illicit trade also causes an estimated €10 billion in lost revenue for governments each year. the commission has not succeeded sufficiently in making the added value of the agreement with pmi real and the transparency of this dossier is absolutely lacking. the key instruments are in place with the tobacco products directive (tracking and tracing system) and the protocol to the world health organisation's fctc convention. the commission and the member states must do everything possible to implement and ratify these two instruments as soon as possible. where appropriate, the commission may make proposals to further strengthen the legal framework for the fight against illicit trade in tobacco.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission not to renew the anti-trafficking agreement with phillip morris international, which is due to expire in july next year and which provided for the payment of eur 1.25 billion to compensate the european union and the member states for the loss of tax revenue resulting from smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes. on the basis of the information we have received, i have serious doubts about the effectiveness of this type of agreement, which i consider to be totally unethical. i would not want olaf, whose operating budget is partly financed by payments from the tobacco sector, to be involved in a conflict of interest. i therefore call for clarification of the situation and, rather than renewing an agreement that is causing many problems, i encourage the commission to redouble its efforts to implement the 2014 tobacco products directive, which provides for the introduction of a traceability and tracing system by 2019. i also urge member states to ratify the protocol to the who framework convention on tobacco control, which provides for global provisions.
in writing. ‒ by refusing to renew the agreement with philip morris international this afternoon, 414 meps said no to any compromise with the cigarette industry. an industry responsible for the deaths of 700,000 europeans every year cannot be considered just another industry! the eu was already guilty of having signed in 2004, in the most complete opacity, an agreement with pmi, clearly putting financial interest above any ethical and public health considerations. in practice, the binding agreement provided for a payment of eur 1.25 billion over 12 years by the pmi group in return for an obligation on the latter to control the smuggling of its cigarettes. the commission does not seem to have learned its lesson from what vice-president georgieva said in the plenary on 25 february. for those like me who have strongly defended the health of citizens during the negotiations on the tobacco products directive 2014/40/eu, such an attempt by the tobacco industry to interfere in public affairs is unacceptable. the commission has no choice but to go along with the european parliament, not to renew the agreement with pmi, otherwise it risks adding cynicism to european fatalism.
in writing. ‒ on this thorny (not to say "smoky") issue, my vote was very clear: i supported the majority resolution, not that of my group, which believes that renewal of the agreement with philip morris brands sarl would send a damaging and counterproductive message by suggesting that the european union is engaging in inappropriate interactions with the tobacco industry and which considers that the agreement should not be renewed, extended or renegotiated beyond its current expiry date.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. but you know, the decision to increase the european aid package to eritrea substantially is, in my opinion, a gross miscalculation. it is also contrary to the recommendation and the position of this parliament. the european commission attributes the exodus from the country mainly to the economic situation. it's wrong! it ignores the real suffering of the eritrean people. president afewerki's eritrea is one of the most totalitarian states in the world. an open prison where the population lives in constant fear. arbitrary arrests, torture, extrajudicial executions are the rule. no freedom of speech, freedom of association or freedom of religion. there is a mandatory military service for an indefinite period. from an early age, children are recruited by this military regime. these young people are uneducated, their future is being brutally taken away from them. against this background of gross violations of human rights, one must explain the large influx of refugees into europe. i see no intention on the part of the authorities to really improve the lot of the population. more european money will only enable them to continue their dictatorial repressive practices. is that what we want? the people are not going to benefit from our money if it does not serve clear development objectives and if it does not attach conditions of respect for human rights. and there's more. finding a better and safer home in the european union, even that, for many refugees, appears to be an illusion. the regime's spies are chasing the people into european territory. they make them pay an income tax. those who refuse must fear for the fate of the family left behind. this long arm of the regime has been reported in the media for years. the united nations has launched an inquiry, but the commission and the eeas are silent. madam minister, should we not at least put this regime on guard? it is high time for realism, for action and for decisiveness.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done. it is important that this report should make the organization of the market much more efficient. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat antibiotic resistance. large-scale use of antibiotics, including preventive use in healthy animals, is increasing the number of bacteria that are becoming resistant, and this is reducing the effectiveness of some antibiotics. with the development of new types of antibiotics also in full swing, there is reason for concern. all the players in the sector agree that: the use of antibiotics must be reduced, but a total ban, as some colleagues have proposed, is, in my view, a bridge too far. careful and responsible use of antibiotics is necessary. this report respects that principle. the routine, preventive administration of antibiotics is being restricted. this is an excellent thing, for it prevents ill-conditions, such as newborn pigs with resistant bacteria. however, a total ban on preventive use has not been put in place, and i think that is a sign of common sense. the farmer should be able to continue to use antibiotics as a preventive measure immediately before or during the operation of an animal. such exceptions are necessary to reduce animal suffering as well. the list of exceptions will be drawn up by the european medicines agency. that is also a good choice, because it guarantees that the list will be compiled on a scientific basis.
this report on the banking union contains some very good points. i am thinking, for example, of the fact that the stress test for large banks in the euro zone is being viewed very critically. let's go back to 2011: at that time, even the bank dexia passed its stress test, and everyone knows how that story ended. if we want to make banks in europe safer, we need more control, better control, stronger control. it is also important for the matters we shall be discussing in this parliament in the future. it's already been mentioned. the european deposit guarantee scheme, for example, is very relevant in the context we are discussing today. but in conclusion i regret that this report is too optimistic on a number of points. for example, too little attention is paid to the problem of junk credit, which banks - especially in southern europe - are facing today. i also think that we are moving a little too fast in the statements and policies of mario draghi, and that is regrettable, especially on a day like today.
- a writer. we are at a pivotal moment for the democratic republic of congo. for months, opposition, ngos, academics and even president kabila's government partners have been crying out for change and respect for the constitution. actually, the president has no political future. but he's willing to add an unconstitutional term. meanwhile, the political climate and the human rights situation are deteriorating rapidly. there is only one wisdom in the congo, and that is the wisdom of silence. human rights activists, journalists and opposition members have been hunted down: persecuted, imprisoned, sometimes killed. even young people who peacefully protest are not spared. i would like to mention in particular the names of 'fred bauma' and 'yves makwambala' who have been in prison for a year. we are now looking at the congolese government, but also at the member states, the high representative, the council. they should play an active role in bringing about an inclusive dialogue. the congo has everything to gain from a stable, democratic context and a rule of law where impunity is ended. these are the conditions for the peace that the congolese have longed for.
author. madam president, according to the congolese constitution, elections must be held within 90 days, when president kabila's term of office expires. the president's silence and the efforts of the authorities to maintain their position are creating real instability in the democratic republic of congo. since january 2015, a major wave of repression has been directed against all opposition voices. we call on the congolese authorities to establish as soon as possible the conditions for free and transparent elections, respecting the constitution. the african union to play its role in ensuring that african constitutions are respected; the european union, to support a clear process and to consider targeted sanctions; the european union is not a party to the conflict.
in writing. ‒ following the horrific terrorist attacks that struck tunisia last year, the country is currently experiencing serious economic difficulties. in this context, the commission has submitted to parliament, at first reading, a sensible proposal for a regulation introducing urgent autonomous trade measures for tunisia. the text introduces a duty-free quota of 35 000 tonnes of virgin olive oil produced entirely in tunisia for 2016 and 2017. however, after half the time, the impact of this trade measure on the olive oil market in the union will also be evaluated. should the commission find that the union market is affected, it may take corrective measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which aims to help tunisia economically and thus help stabilise it despite the terrorist acts it is facing.
in writing. the terrorist attacks in tunisia have caused severe damage to the country and its economy, which is largely dependent on its tourism revenue. the european union's concrete and directly measurable support is essential to ensure tunisia's further political and economic transition. the temporary trade measure for tunisian olive oil exports to the eu will allow us to restart tunisia's economic engine and continue the economic and democratic transition, the success of which is vital for tunisia and for europe.
in writing. ‒ thanks to this vote, 70 000 tonnes of olive oil, tunisia's main agricultural export, will be able to be imported into the eu over the next two years at zero customs duties. tunisia is an important partner in the region, a neighbour of europe and a member of euromed, but democratic and economic reforms are still fragile. this encouragement of the olive sector, which indirectly employs more than one million people, is all the more significant since a slow growth of just 0.5% now leaves more than 15% of tunisians at the doorstep of the labour market. the measures approved today should not disrupt the balance of the european market, since olive oil stocks are currently lower than those observed in recent years. more than economic support, this afternoon's vote is also a real encouragement to the tunisian democratic process.
in writing. ‒ at its plenary session in strasbourg on thursday 10 march, the european parliament adopted the emergency trade measures for tunisia, which were already approved in substance at its last plenary session on 25 february 2016. parliament had then supported the adoption of an additional quota of 35,000 tonnes per year of free importation of tunisian olive oil over two years, but had not formally concluded the first reading of the text. the council, meanwhile, had approved the amendments voted by parliament on wednesday, giving meps the opportunity to adopt them formally and definitively.
in writing. - i voted for the text. the union must help to revive the economy of this country in an admittedly difficult period, while stressing the respect for labour and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the european union must help tunisia and the tunisians to make it through the difficult transition period in which the country is living. this means that we must support them in building a solid and credible democracy on the one hand and in developing their economies on the other. the latter objective is the subject of this proposal. this measure will help to stimulate the olive oil sector in tunisia. this sector indirectly accounts for 1/5 of total employment in the country's agricultural sector. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ given that, according to the who, 25,000 people die each year in the eu because antibiotics lose their effectiveness, it is necessary to take the fight against antibiotic resistance seriously. that is why it is so important to start with veterinary medicine, because animals can also develop antibiotic-resistant germs that can spread to humans. in particular, the revision of the regulation provides for the restriction of the use of existing antimicrobials and the promotion of the development of new active substances. i therefore welcome the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on a proposal for a directive which aims to establish an updated body of legislation, adapted to the specificities of the veterinary sector, while safeguarding public health, animal health, food safety and the environment. the rapporteur shares the commission's objectives and its desire to clearly differentiate the market for veterinary medicinal products from that for human medicinal products, which follows a very different logic. the commission has also chosen to focus on product availability and administrative simplification, without sacrificing the imperatives of public health and environmental protection. however, the commission has not gone far enough on certain points. the draft report thus specifies the conditions under which veterinary health professionals are allowed to prescribe and sell antibiotics or stresses that antibiotics and medicines cannot be sold via the internet.
in writing. ‒ the increasing resistance to human and animal antibiotics is a major public health problem. by 2050, it is estimated that ten million people worldwide will die each year from the effects of resistant bacteria, due to overuse and misuse of antibiotics. the warnings from both the world health organization and the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) are well known. if we are to avoid antibiotics becoming useless, measures are needed at several levels. the updating of the legislation on veterinary medicines approved by the european parliament today sends a strong signal in this regard that the n-va delegation supports: in order to reduce antimicrobial resistance drastically, the preventive use of antibiotics in animals should be restricted. at the same time, innovation, research and competitiveness must be fully stimulated to increase the availability of medicines and administrative burdens must be reduced.
in writing. antimicrobial resistance, which is increasingly present worldwide, poses a serious threat to public health. in the years ahead, therefore, antibiotic-resistant bacteria will pose a real health challenge. closely linked to the administration of antibiotics to farm animals, the problem of antibiotic resistance must be tackled at source. the european legislator must therefore adopt provisions on veterinary medicinal products as soon as possible. as such, i welcome the adoption by parliament of its position on the legislative proposal on veterinary medicinal products. the use of antibiotics in farms should be strictly controlled to limit it to what is strictly necessary and to avoid any excessive, indiscriminate or systematic use of antibiotics in animals entering the food chain. in addition to the management of antibiotic use, the emphasis should be on the search for alternatives to these medicines. innovation must be encouraged to ensure that antibiotics are used as little as possible and that their effects are sustained. this is an urgent problem to which we must devote all our efforts. it's about our health.
in writing. ‒ meps adopted the draft update of the eu veterinary medicines legislation this afternoon. an important vote in a worrying context of antimicrobial resistance. in this regard, the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) recently warned that bacteria in humans and animals continue to show resistance to the most widely used antimicrobials. resistance to ciprofloxacin, an antimicrobial extremely important for the treatment of infections in humans, is particularly problematic. the main points were agreed, the first of which was the prohibition in principle of the prophylactic use of antibiotics. this means that the preventive administration of medicinal products to animals is only authorised on an individual basis and only when justified by a veterinarian. the latter remains at the heart of the system, it is essential, and can continue to prescribe and deliver the medicines. other limits have been set by the european parliament, such as the ban on the veterinary use of antibiotics critical for human medicine and the desire to end the sale of antibiotics and prescription vaccines on the internet. an agreement with the council at first reading is now within reach.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted the amendments to the european commission's original proposal on veterinary medicines in plenary on thursday 10 march. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. the amendment aims to combat antibiotic resistance in farms more effectively, in particular by prohibiting purely preventive use (prophylaxis) and by making metaphylaxis (treatment of an entire herd when only one animal is sick) subject to conditions. i also personally supported an amendment which aims to add the fact that the medicinal product contains gmos to the grounds for refusing marketing authorization (given that 19 vaccines containing gmos are already on the market).
in writing. - on most of the points in the file, i agree with mrs grossetête. as far as pharmacovigilance is concerned, the european commission's new approach based on risk detection is a step forward, provided that public health is not compromised. a system based both on the regular submission of periodic pharmacovigilance reports in the very first years of the product's life, and only then on risk analysis and signal detection, seems more appropriate. the commission proposes to make it easier to use human medicines for animal treatment outside the marketing authorisation. the text leaves it to the veterinarians to decide on this use. the rapporteur, without calling into question the responsibility of the latter, calls for this possibility to be better regulated, pointing out that the use of human medicines can only be used as a last resort and if there is no better alternative.
in writing. ‒ the current regulatory framework for the authorisation and marketing of medicinal products in the eu applies to both human and veterinary medicinal products. however, in order to meet the specific needs of the veterinary sector, it is important to separate the two areas, which i fully support.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which will allow the new regulation to govern all procedures for granting marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products in the union, which will be separate from those applicable to medicinal products for human use.
in writing. in parallel with the adoption of mrs grossetête's report on veterinary medicinal products, parliament also gave its opinion on the proposal for a regulation amending the existing provisions on the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. the aim is to separate the marketing authorisations for these two types of medicinal products. the regulation on veterinary medicinal products will be brought together in a separate regulation to take full account of the specificities of the veterinary sector. i also welcome the desire to clearly define the role of the european medicines agency in relation to veterinary medicines, in particular their authorisation and supervision.
in writing. ‒ directive 2001/82/ec of the european parliament and of the council on veterinary medicinal products and regulation (ec) no 726/2004 of the european parliament and of the council establishing community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency constitute the union regulatory framework governing the manufacture, authorisation and distribution of veterinary medicinal products. in september 2014, following an assessment of the functioning of the internal market in this sector, the commission published a proposal to bring together the rules applicable to veterinary medicinal products into a single regulation on veterinary medicinal products, repealing and replacing directive 2001/82/ec on veterinary medicinal products and amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 with a view to deleting all references to veterinary medicinal products and, consequently, to completely decouple the provisions governing veterinary medicinal products from those governing medicinal products for human use. while i supported this text, i also supported the commitment of the european executive to ensure that the new measures take account of the specificities of the veterinary sector and that the fees remain affordable for the veterinary sector in order to promote the development and availability of new medicines in the union.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal as a whole and am satisfied with the alignment with the lisbon treaty. it is welcome that marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products are being separated from those for human medicinal products in order to take account of the specific needs of the veterinary sector. however, i think that the proposal still needs to be improved in some respects. the structure and level of fees due to the agency, as well as the remuneration of the national competent authorities, should not be determined by an implementing act, contrary to what is proposed by the commission. parliament should be fully involved in the setting of fees due to the agency as in the case of pharmacovigilance legislation. we therefore suggest that this issue be dealt with in a fully fledged codecision procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it will improve access to veterinary medicines in the first place. secondly, it will reduce the administrative burden and ensure that measures are taken to combat the growing resistance to human and animal antibiotics. finally, it stimulates further innovation in the sector.
in writing. ‒ i approved the resolution following the oral question, as there is a need for a framework that allows both in terms of growth, job creation and competitiveness to make the most of the benefits of the data economy while ensuring robust protection of privacy through the protection of personal data.
in writing. the digitisation of society is becoming more widespread. it affects our whole society and is now generating a fourth revolution. by launching the digital single market, the european union aims to seize this opportunity for growth and jobs. it aims to restore competitiveness to revive its economy. but, as the report stresses, this revolution must be framed, particularly on the importance of respect for privacy. data protection is a prerequisite for the sustainable development of our digital economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which focuses on the economic potential of the current phase of the new technology revolution in europe and which highlights the need for a new digital recovery in europe to unlock synergies between big data, data protection, data security and open data; the development of appropriate infrastructures such as fibre optic broadband networks, high-performance computing infrastructures, the future development of the internet of things, the deployment of ipv6 and secure storage, linked to the development of cloud computing in europe; the recognition of growth-enhancing initiatives by smes and their role as the main players in the field of big data; and the recognition of patents as key instruments to encourage investment in research and development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. i believe that it is essential to develop a regulatory framework to address the economic, technological, social and cultural challenges of a data-driven economy, such as access to data or control and ownership of data, including public data. data security and data protection are essential conditions for the growth of the data sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we also call for the following challenges to be addressed: ownership, possession, management, security, interoperability, limitation and storage of, and access to, data, restrictions on the use and re-use of data in europe, barriers to innovation in the area of human capital, accessibility and infrastructure, transparency of rules on data transfer, cross-border mechanisms and, where appropriate, creation, dissemination, availability and access to open data for public authorities and service providers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for accelerating the transition to a data economy in europe. this resolution stimulates research and innovation in this area, but at the same time creates more opportunities for smes in europe because of the better availability of capital and knowledge.
in writing. ‒ i obviously supported this joint resolution which highlights the appalling human rights situation in eritrea, which is causing a mass exodus of eritreans in search of a better life and international protection. the european union and the international community must do everything possible to ensure that the eritrean people can enjoy their fundamental rights and thus emerge from the reign of terror which has been reigned over them for far too long.
in writing. expectations were high when eritrea became independent in 1993. with the help of the international community, the country would take the reins of its own government and build a free and prosperous country for its people. today we find that eritrea is one of the poorest and least developed countries. this translates not only into a dramatic economic situation without prospects, but also into the finding that human rights are constantly and widely violated, that free media are excluded, religious freedom is non-existent and the country is bathed in a culture of violence. in addition, the regime imposes an endless military service on everyone, which permanently destroys any chance for individual self-development. all this makes a large proportion of eritreans risk crossing to europe. this resolution calls for an end to this unfortunate period of military service. the european commission is also asked to ensure that the people, not the government, are the ones who benefit directly from european development aid. the european union calls on the eritrean government to take all necessary steps to ensure that the elections are held in accordance with the democratic principles and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text of this resolution which calls on the commission to ensure that the funds and assistance allocated do not go to the eritrean government, but are strictly used to meet the needs of the eritrean people in terms of development, democracy, human rights, governance and security, as well as freedom of expression, press and assembly. the text also requires eritrea to sign and immediately implement the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment and to fully comply with its obligations under the international covenant on civil and political rights and the african charter on human and peoples' rights, both of which prohibit torture.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, we call on eritrea to fully implement the constitution it has ratified and the rights enshrined in it, in particular in articles 17 and 19. on the other hand, we encourage eritrea to sign, ratify and implement without delay the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment and to fully comply with its obligations under the international covenant on civil and political rights and the african charter on human and peoples' rights, both of which prohibit torture.
in writing. ‒ according to the un, human rights violations in eritrea are ongoing and widespread, and there appears to be no improvement. eritreans fleeing the country are the third largest group of refugees attempting the dangerous crossing to europe. i therefore support this resolution which calls for an improvement in the deplorable human rights situation in the country and for a better use of european aid to improve the situation in eritrea.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which recalls in particular that the early parliamentary elections on 5 june will be an important test for the country's democratic process and insists that all political parties make efforts to create favourable conditions for the organisation of credible early elections. the report clearly underlines the paramount importance of holding free and fair elections in full respect of international standards and in accordance with the osce/odihr recommendations. finally, the report considers it strategically important to continue to support the country's progress towards eu accession and notes that the recommendation to open accession negotiations should be conditional on the full implementation of the june/july 2015 political agreement and significant progress in the implementation of the urgently needed priority reforms.
the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has made european and nato integration its strategic priority. this prospect should provide the government with an incentive to speed up the necessary reforms. the annual evaluation report takes stock of progress made in the accession process. relations with greece have cooled somewhat, although it remains desirable that a mutually acceptable solution be found to the lingering name issue. both countries are committed to cooperating in the fields of education, culture, energy and home affairs. applying for an eu ticket implies that you subscribe to the core european values. this means that the media in fyrom must be able to carry out their editorial work independently and in full freedom, without any political interference. the fyrom will have to make considerable efforts to tackle air and water pollution. at the same time, the energy market needs to be aligned with european energy policy, including an ambitious growth path for renewable energy. in order to guarantee a sustainable political democracy, it will be necessary, in addition to organising transparent elections and organising a genuine parliamentary political culture, to eradicate widespread corruption at all administrative levels.
in writing. ‒ we called on the political parties of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) on thursday 10 march to "fulfill as soon as possible all their commitments" related to the political agreement of 2 june and 15 july 2015, "in a comprehensive, constructive and timely manner, and in a lasting and negotiated manner". the text of the resolution stresses that an "agreement between all parties remains essential to implement all the elements" of this agreement "that would put the country back on the path of a euro-atlantic perspective". it called on the political parties to 'initiate constructive political dialogue and to continue their efforts to restore public confidence in the institutions, in order to preserve political stability and accelerate the reform programme'. the urgent priority reforms include freedom of the media and of assembly, public administration, the rule of law and fundamental rights, the judiciary and the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ we wanted to underline the need to prepare for the elections in accordance with the highest international standards, in particular by ensuring free and fair electoral procedures and strengthening media freedom. we are concerned about the slow pace of voter registration and media reform. stress further that the national electoral commission must have full powers to carry out its work and that a methodology should be agreed by all parties to control the electoral lists, carrying out the necessary on-the-spot checks to ensure full legitimacy; stresses the importance of all political actors respecting the results of the elections and actively participating in parliamentary activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on the political leaders of macedonia to implement urgent reforms. this will help the country to overcome the political crisis and will also be a step in the right direction for the start of negotiations on accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which highlights the progress made by montenegro in the process of european integration and highlights some positive developments such as the appreciable progress made in improving the legislative framework to strengthen the independence, accountability and professionalism of the judiciary, but also some negative elements such as the serious problem of the persistence of corruption.
in writing. in its annual progress report on montenegro, the european parliament takes stock of progress/decrease in the accession negotiations. by opening the important chapters of justice, security, transport and energy, montenegro is the fastest progressing country of all the candidate countries in the balkans. despite these positive developments, a number of important obstacles still need to be removed. while montenegro is experiencing rapid economic development, additional structural reforms are needed to strengthen the competitiveness of enterprises, remove legal uncertainty, diversify the economy and address the high and structural youth unemployment. in addition, corruption at all levels remains a highly disruptive factor in montenegrin society. the fight against trafficking in human beings and organised crime will also have to be stepped up. the energy market is developing slowly and it is also advisable for montenegro to align its energy production with the eu's environmental and energy objectives. finally, in order to improve the highly polarized political climate, all parties benefit from the full implementation of the new electoral law and free and transparent elections strengthen parliamentary democracy.
in writing. ‒ deeply concerned about the internal political split and the boycott of parliamentary activities by part of the opposition in montenegro, we called on all political forces on thursday, 10 march, to re-establish a sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation within the montenegrin parliament. "dialogue and compromise are the foundations of any democratic decision-making process", underlines the text of the resolution on the 2015 report on montenegro. the text also considers it 'essential, in a democracy worthy of the name, that any dispute be expressed in a peaceful manner and in compliance with the legislation concerned', and expects the competent authorities to carry out, in due course, a thorough investigation into all acts of violence committed during the demonstrations. finally, we urged all opposition parties to consider inviting them to join the government until the october 2016 elections "in order to guarantee, without further delay, conditions conducive to the organisation of free and fair elections".
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. i would like to express my concern at the very low number of convictions in organised crime cases and the very low number of seizures and confiscations of criminal assets. there is a need for stronger and better cooperation between the judicial authorities and the law enforcement agencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it welcomes the steady progress of montenegro in the accession negotiations. the commission also stresses the need for further changes, such as in the fight against fraud and freedom of the press.
the financial crisis, which has shaken up much of the western world since 2007, has led politicians to seek to eliminate risks in the sector. banks need to maintain higher capital ratios, higher buffers, to absorb shocks in financial markets. a good case. the european union, however, is taking advantage of the opportunity and, as it always does when a problem arises, is again pursuing its unification ambition. it wants a european banking union at once, with a deposit guarantee system in the third stage. such a system at eu level will increase the risk of a new transfer union from north to south, and so we are in a dead end, as with the euro. that is one of the reasons why i voted against the gualtieri report today.
in writing. ‒ the banking union is one of the main achievements since the financial crisis in 2008 that can ensure security and resilience in the financial and banking sectors and restore confidence, investment in the real economy and a high level of protection for citizens in the event of the failure of banks and financial corporations. we have supported the first steps: the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), which has been operational since 2014, and the single resolution mechanism (srm) since the beginning of this year. the third pillar a common system of insurance deposits is unfortunately still missing and the common fiscal backstop which should be available as a last resort to support the single resolution fund has not yet started. in the absence of these missing elements, the banking union cannot be considered complete and capable of fulfilling its ambition and reducing risks. this should be our priority for the years ahead.
in writing. one of the biggest european constructions in the aftermath of the crisis is the banking union. the aim of the directive is to stabilise the financial sector by ensuring common rules and guarantees and supervision at european level. it is now operational, in particular through the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism. some 128 banks in the euro area have thus been placed under the ecb's supervision. the banking union is not, however, finalised. it also requires the creation of a common bank deposit guarantee. this reform is in progress, as the commission has tabled a legislative proposal on this subject.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, european financial integration was in the spotlight with the vote on the gualtieri report on banking union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. a fair system based on a cascading approach: when a bank needs to be rescued, it is first its owners (shareholders) who will be called upon to contribute, then, in a second step, the creditors and, finally, the holders of deposits of more than eur 100 000. there is still progress to be made. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the european parliament also stressed the importance of strengthening the capital of banks without affecting lending capacity and the distribution of credit. a change in this regard is crucial as in recent months banks have 'closed the tap' on access to finance for individuals and entrepreneurs creating growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft report on the banking union for 2015, which welcomes the state of progress of the banking union in the euro area and the proposal to create a european deposit guarantee scheme (edis). the report calls for the completion of the banking union through the establishment of a single deposit guarantee scheme and a backstop for the single resolution fund (srf).
in writing. ‒ banking union is an indispensable component of monetary union and one of the main foundations of a genuine economic and monetary union (emu), and it is open to the participation of member states whose currency is not the euro. we encourage broad representation within the banking union through the future engagement and participation of the competent national authorities of non-participating member states, in accordance with established legal rules and procedures, as well as through enhanced cooperation with third countries outside the european union. closer coordination between competent national authorities within the union and at international level is essential to ensure the effective regulation and supervision of systemically important banks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this annual report on the european banking union. this report reflects a good state of affairs and highlights the challenges still ahead.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable that this debate should take place without the commissioner responsible, mr hogan. the situation is serious, farmers' incomes have been eroded, the dairy and pig sectors in particular are sinking into a crisis whose scale and gravity the european union does not seem to be aware of. in my own country, belgium, the situation is particularly serious. the crisis in the dairy sector affects the whole country, while the crisis in the pig sector mainly affects the north of the country, flanders. i shall continue to speak in dutch. the situation in the flemish varkenskwekers is dramatic. currently, the cost of bringing a pig to the slaughterhouse is less than 1 euro per kilo, while the farmer needs 1.30 euro to earn his bread and 1.50 euro to earn his bread. the price the farmer receives for his meat is not sufficient to cover the rising production costs resulting from higher food and energy prices. the pig farmers are obliged to sell their pigs, whereas the sale of pigs is prohibited in all economic sectors except for the farmers. with its ultra-liberal vision in its quest to conquer new markets, the european commission is facing a catastrophe. with her proposals, which are intended to bring the crisis under control, she has at no time succeeded in bringing the situation under control. mr commissioner, i have had several requests from this parliament, but the prices must be set taking into account production costs and may never be lower than these costs. the urgency of the situation calls for action. we have concrete measures to limit the supply. we must also rapidly set up a monitoring centre for pigmeat prices to collect information on prices, production levels, slaughter numbers, insemination, profit margins, stocks and market trends. in addition, it must be quickly negotiated over a lifting of the russian embargo. mr commissioner, this is urgent. let us not think any longer, but act.
mr president, this is a matter of great concern to our citizens, and i think we have much to gain from a public debate on this.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. as rapporteur for the opinion of the empl committee, i am very pleased that many elements of our opinion have been taken up in the report by my ecr colleague from the committee on legal affairs. in our opinion we made a number of recommendations: firstly, the commission and the member states should intensify the discussion on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the field of employment and social affairs. secondly, the principle of subsidiarity requires us as policy-makers to ensure that new european legislation provides tangible added value. thirdly, the role of the national parliaments must be further strengthened. i will close with two personal concerns. i strongly advocate that an independent impact assessment body be set up. finally, i would like to emphasize that substantial changes can be made to the commission's proposal during the legislative process. it is therefore important to check whether these amendments are in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
a few days after the dutch referendum with its well-known result - two thirds of the population voted against any european union measure - it seems to me useful to reiterate the principle of subsidiarity once again. ideally, subsidiarity should prevent the european union from ever enlarging, from encroaching on itself and from appropriating powers which do not belong to it or which should not be dealt with at european level. what is the juri committee doing to us? a text which states - and i quote - 'that the union may act in areas not falling within its exclusive competence only if and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states at central, regional or local level, but can be better achieved by the union because of the scale or effects of the proposed action'. with a little bit of that, ladies and gentlemen, you can go all the way. with such a phrase in the hands of the adepts of the european union, we are moving towards an enlargement and further centralisation of that european union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the european union is being given a blank cheque here, even in this european parliament, on this very important principle, to continue its plans for a federal europe. the ever closer union continues here today and we can hardly prevent it, unless we have referendums like the dutch ones, which will wake up all of you here as followers of federal europe. the objective, namely a federal europe with a phrase like this, justifies all means and the fact that subsidiarity turns out to be a piece of paper in the end.
in writing. the european commission's proposal to renew the approval for the use of glyphosate (a substance contained in roundup in particular) for 15 years is not acceptable because of concerns related to its use in the composition of agricultural and household products. the european parliament's committee on the environment has taken up this issue and some in the scientific community have pointed to the likely health risks of using widely used products containing glyphosate. unfortunately, this objection was not accepted today in the plenary session of parliament, and i regret that. a majority of meps supported a seven-year renewal agreement. i objected to that. by granting the commission this 'half-ass' the european parliament is sending the wrong signal. it is now up to the commission and then to the states to take account of the reservations expressed. i am today advocating that the proposal be reworded to take account of the potential hazard of this substance, while allowing a sustainable transition for farmers and economically and ecologically responsible alternative products. thank you for your attention.
in writing. only the outright removal of this product, which is dangerous for the citizen, will be a real satisfaction. it is not clear why some governments, including the belgian government, are in favour of the authorization of glyphosate. there are serious suspicions about this product, which is a likely endocrine disruptor, causing cancer and hormonal problems and dangerous for development. it has been the subject of numerous studies highlighting the toxicity of its side effects as well as the link between exposure to glyphosate and the development of autism in children. the who has listed the herbicide as a possible carcinogen. it is understandable that monsanto is doing its utmost to get glyphosate approved, since its withdrawal would reduce the profits of the multinational. but when our citizens are in danger, it is our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to uphold the precautionary principle! i cannot accept that a product which poses serious potential risks to the health of europeans should remain on the market. the member states which have remained blind to this evidence have one month left to finally join us in this fight for the security of european citizens.
i am pleased to present the report on better regulation in the internal market today. it's been a long process. the least we can say today is that the european union is in trouble. we have the euro crisis, the refugee crisis, the security crisis, brexit, grexit and last week the referendum in the netherlands. i would therefore like to say that the time for blindfolded europeans to see 'more europe' as the solution to all this is over! when people ask me, 'what can europe do to reconnect with its citizens?' i always answer that europe has a responsibility to prove its relevance. it is only when europe can show that it matters that people will see its added value. it is therefore a shared responsibility of the european institutions to be guided by this principle, translated into the principle of subsidiarity, when deciding whether or not to act, to decide how best to act when regulation is needed, and ultimately to ensure that the regulation adopted is simple and easily applicable. this is the starting point of the report on better regulation in the internal market. the single market is one of the cornerstones of european cooperation. it is therefore important that the legislation adopted is also implemented and transposed by the member states. in order to support the achievements of the internal market and also to take up the challenges of the digital single market, institutions need to show determination. if not, then efforts to achieve better regulation may be thwarted by regulatory drift. simply and effectively implementing legislation and also continuously evaluating legislation to ensure that the objectives are being achieved, that is the message. improving the internal market does not mean abolishing regulation, but creating a competitive regulatory environment that keeps jobs and businesses in europe. a single market that does not frustrate but stimulates production, innovation and trade. dare to ask questions, dare to be critical, without taboos. in this way, we will be working towards a strong and dynamic internal market which contributes to long-term growth in europe and thus to the prosperity of european citizens. that is what i had in mind with this report. i hope that i can count on your vote tomorrow.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on their excellent and comprehensive work, which contains all the strategic elements of a truly coherent and responsible european asylum policy. it is a matter of organizing legal access routes to avoid the sad massacres we are witnessing in the mediterranean. it calls for a fairer distribution of refugees to avoid the overload and suffocation of the first host country resulting from the dublin system. it contains - and i agree with it - the need for stronger border controls, a more effective fight against smugglers and the return to their countries of origin of people who cannot claim the right to asylum. it also contains - and i particularly welcome this - the outline of a fully integrated asylum policy. the asylum must in future be a european asylum. you must be able to apply for asylum in the european union. the european agency easo is responsible for examining applications. all procedures, appeals and time limits must be harmonised. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i would like to ask the commissioner if he can confirm today that the commission - i will speak to you when you hear me - intends to propose, in the context of the revision of the multiannual financial framework, the additional resources necessary for the european union to be able to assume its responsibilities in the field of asylum.
for the ecr group this report, which was intended to set out a strategic vision on asylum and migration for this legislature, is a missed opportunity. first of all, asylum and legal migration are two totally different issues that each deserve its own treatment. but it turned into a soup! secondly, where the report contains new proposals, they are completely unrealistic. turning the dublin system into a distribution mechanism is all very well, but doing so without restrictions and stringent conditions attached to it, without maximum quotas and barely a word about return? but what about new legal routes to the eu? hello common sense! we must take off our blinders and finally put forward realistic and well-thought-out solutions. we must work in several areas at the same time. so on the one hand, we have to ensure that our borders are well guarded and that each member state applies the dublin rules. on the other hand, we must work towards the successful integration of recognised refugees into our society.
blue-card question.– i am very glad to hear that you are also talking about the embargo. i want to ask you: how far can we go to find a solution to the russian embargo on fruit and vegetables? i have said it already many times here in plenary: i think the priority for the agricultural sector should be that the russian boycott should stop. can your party support all the initiatives to ban the boycott?
mr president, commissioner, we have been talking about this crisis for over a year now, and the solutions we have found are only "measures" in view of the scale of the problem. i would remind you that farmers are asking for two things: regulation of the markets, which is being turned away from, not only by the commission, but also by a majority of european governments, who do not want any more regulation. they are also partly responsible for this disaster. the farmers also demand a fair wage for their work. the cap is now going against the grain of the world's major agricultural policies. while the european union bases its policy on decoupled support for production, in large producer countries such as the united states, brazil and china, in particular, support for farmers is directly linked to price, production volume or input use. in the light of these observations, i think it is important to emphasize two things: we must be particularly attentive to the impact of free trade agreements which could further increase the instability of the most important agricultural markets - i am thinking of ttip and mercosur - and, finally, we must think about the introduction of counter-cyclical tools to help farmers in this cap which no longer meets its objectives.
in writing. ‒ a series of products originating in certain acp (africa, caribbean and pacific) countries may be granted more favourable access to the eu market, including the abolition of import duties through surveillance and safeguard measures. i voted in favour of this proposed codecision regulation because it will allow the commission to adopt delegated acts which may limit surveillance and safeguard measures to one or a few member states and not to the whole of the european union. i think that this targeting is more appropriate as long as the measures taken do not disrupt the functioning of the internal market, which would then penalise the other member states and undermine the desired effect.
in writing. i welcome the vote in favour of the report on the codification and recasting of the european 'market access regulation' for products originating in certain acp countries. in adopting this report, parliament endorsed the commission's proposal to codify the regulation, which has already been amended nine times since its adoption in 2007. this codification makes the regulation clearer, more coherent and easier to read. it is an effective technique that ensures the transparency and simplification of union legislation when a legal instrument is subject to multiple amendments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which incorporates the commission's proposal to codify council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 of 20 december 2007. the market access regulation applies to products originating in certain states belonging to the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states the arrangements provided for in agreements establishing or leading to the establishment of economic partnership agreements. it applies to products originating in the regions and states listed in annex i, which provides for more favourable access to the union market rules for a number of products defined in the regulation. it should be noted that this new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it, whilst fully preserving the substance of those acts. at the same time, it was also necessary to introduce certain substantive amendments to empower the commission to adopt delegated acts and to adapt the rules on exceptional measures with limited territorial application.
in writing. ‒ the objective of codification is to ensure the transparency, clarity and simplification of union legislation when a legal instrument is subject to multiple amendments. since its adoption in 2007, the market access regulation has already been amended nine times, notably in the context of the 'post-lisbon' alignment through the omnibus trade act ii and subsequent commission delegated regulations. i therefore voted in favour of the text tabled by my colleague mr walesa.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is a codification of the 'market access regulation'. with this decision, we are bringing more clarity and transparency to this regulation.
in writing. ‒ the new protocol negotiated between the union, the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland setting out fishing opportunities and financial compensation establishes an eu-greenland joint committee which would be responsible for expressing the union's position and monitoring its application and proper implementation. the commission would be empowered to approve amendments to the said protocol after negotiations with greenland. i voted in favour of the conclusion of this protocol because i believe that fishing opportunities and financial compensation must be monitored with the greatest care and that the position expressed on behalf of the union can be reviewed as and when the latest relevant statistical and biological information is taken into account in order not to interfere with the agreements reached.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's approval of the conclusion of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and greenland. the continuation of this fisheries agreement, which is of particular importance to both parties, will contribute to the strengthening of cooperation in the field of sustainable fisheries. to this end, this agreement - as well as all other fisheries partnership agreements - must be fully in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and in particular with its precautionary principle and the responsible exploitation of marine resources. the union is a key player in the field of fisheries and therefore has a duty to promote, in particular through the fisheries agreements it concludes, the sustainable management of global fisheries resources.
in writing. ‒ the original fisheries agreement between the european union, on the one hand, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, on the other, dates back to 1985. this agreement was extended for a long time until it was finally replaced by the current gpa. almost all of greenland's exports of fishery products are destined for the european union; denmark accounts for more than 90% of the union imports. the european union shall pay a fixed annual financial compensation for access, irrespective of the fishing opportunities provided for in the protocol. the current protocol provides for a financial contribution of eur 17.85 million per year. the greenland agreement is the third agreement of economic importance for the union. the new protocol between the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement and strengthens cooperation between the union and greenland. it also promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone. this shall be done in the interest of both parties, in accordance with the relevant conservation and management measures and within the limits of the available surplus.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text, following the experts in our group. the new protocol is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement; enhance cooperation between the union and greenland and promote a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone, in the interest of both parties. the fisheries protocol would cover a period of five years from the date of provisional application i.e. from the date of its signature and at the earliest on 1 january 2016. it provides for fishing opportunities for union vessels in the greenland fishing zone, in accordance with the relevant conservation and management measures and within the limits of the available surplus. to that end, the protocol sets an indicative annual level of fishing opportunities granted by greenland to union vessels (in tonnes).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this partnership agreement because it provides significant economic benefits for both parties and ensures greater coherence in eu fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ on 23 november 2013, the commission negotiated on behalf of the union an agreement on certain aspects of air services with the government of the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. relations between the eu and macao have been based on a trade and cooperation agreement since 1992. since then, the union has been making its best contribution to the economic and political development of this autonomous region. i voted in favour of this act because it strengthens the union's links with this customs territory which is separate from the rest of the people's republic of china.
in writing. i welcome the vote in favour of the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the macao special administrative region of the people's republic of china. the conclusion of this agreement by the european union will harmonise air transport relations, which have long been governed by bilateral air services agreements. this agreement replaces certain provisions of the 15 existing bilateral air services agreements concluded between the member states of the union and the macao special administrative region. it puts all member states on an equal footing and thus prevents unfair competition between them. this is a step towards more europe in the field of air transport.
in writing. ‒ this agreement between the european union and macao was signed on 23 november 2013. the council needs the consent of the european parliament to conclude this agreement. in accordance with rule 99 and rule 108 (7) of its rules of procedure, the european parliament votes in one vote, which it did yesterday.
in writing. - i agree with mr koch on this point. international relations in the field of air transport between member states and third countries have so far been governed by bilateral air services agreements. the court of justice of the european union ruled in 2002 that the traditional designation clauses in member states' bilateral air services agreements were contrary to european union law. they allow a third country to refuse, withdraw or suspend the licences or authorisations of an air carrier which has been designated by a member state but which is not substantially owned or effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. the court found that this situation constituted discrimination against union carriers established in the territory of a member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. this is a breach of article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees nationals of member states who have exercised their freedom of establishment the same treatment in the host member state as that accorded to nationals of that member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement because it aims to give all european airlines access to air routes between the european union and third countries in a non-discriminatory manner. the agreement also aims to bring bilateral agreements between member states and third countries into line with european law.
in writing. ‒ this report will allow for better international regulatory cooperation, more transparency, accountability and democratisation. the mandate of each organisation should be clarified, as well as the ways in which they operate and are financed, including voluntary contributions, gifts and donations, in order to ensure the legality of decisions and the absence of special interests. this sixth extension maintains the existing situation, which is satisfactory, and provides legal certainty to stakeholders, while allowing the entry into force of the definitive vat regime for intra-eu trade on the basis of a revised set of rules for normal and reduced vat rates. the vat directive provides that from 1 january 2011 until 31 december 2015 the standard rate may not be lower than 15%. the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu, was rejected by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. however, they propose that the current provisions be extended for a period of three years, i.e. until 31 december 2018 (instead of 31 december 2017 as proposed by the commission).
in writing. the aim of this report is to extend for a period of two years the existing situation in which member states apply a standard vat rate of at least 15%. the vat directive provided for the end of this floor rate on 31 december 2015. it should therefore be renewed until december 2017. however, the commission will publish an action plan in june 2016 to reform the current system. this revision will give member states greater flexibility in setting rates and will deal with the concept of temporary derogations.
in writing. ‒ the text adopted endorses the european commission's proposal to retain retroactively the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% and proposes that the current provisions be extended for a period of three years, until 31 december 2018. the european parliament is of the opinion that this time limit provides the necessary legal certainty for the parties concerned and allows for a more in-depth examination of vat rates in the context of the forthcoming vat action plan.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the action plan will set out the orientations for future work in the light of the results achieved since the 2011 communication. it will define the main features of the definitive vat regime for intra-eu trade that the commission intends to propose, as well as the reforms it envisages to adapt the existing rules on vat rates to a definitive regime characterised by the destination principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the minimum standard vat rate because i believe that this will lead to a better functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this strategic cooperation agreement with brazil which will allow the exchange of information, advice, expert analysis and training and advisory activities in specific criminal investigations, but excluding the exchange of personal data. europol seems to have a clear need for operational cooperation with brazil. according to europol, brazil is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, including the facilitation of illegal immigration, and human trafficking, drug-related crime and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime-related activities. brazil also has a particular interest in the field of counter-terrorism and asset recovery.
in writing. parliament was consulted on the future international agreement establishing operational and strategic cooperation between europol and brazil. the agreement was voted before the vote on the future europol regulation, which will give more powers to the european parliament and guarantee better safeguards, particularly in the area of the protection of personal data. while i am totally in favour of cooperation between europol and brazil, i wanted to send a clear signal and defend the role of parliament on such essential issues as cooperation in the fight against crime and trafficking. to that end, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the vote on this draft decision asks the european commission to evaluate, after the entry into force of the new europol regulation (2013/0091 ((cod))), the provisions contained in the cooperation agreement and asks the european executive to inform the council and parliament of the conclusions of this evaluation and, if appropriate, to make a recommendation with a view to authorising the opening of international renegotiation of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ this is an important text in the fight against crime. europol seems to have a clear need for operational cooperation with brazil. according to europol, brazil is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, including the facilitation of illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime and credit card fraud, as well as other cybercrime-related activities. and the 2016 olympics, like all other major sporting events, will certainly be accompanied by an increase in criminal activity. finally, brazil has a particular interest in the field of counter-terrorism and asset recovery.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on strategic cooperation between brazil and europol, as it will contribute to a better fight against organised crime. europol considers brazil to be increasingly important in the fight against serious crime such as drug-related crime, credit card fraud, illegal immigration and human trafficking.
in writing. - following the unanimous opinion of the prosecution committee, i have approved the waiver of mr. winkler's immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr hermann winkler's immunity, so that the german judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, on the understanding that the investigation, linked to a serious road accident involving the member, is clearly not linked to mr winkler's office as a member of parliament, and is not motivated by the desire to harm the member's political action.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this waiver of immunity so that this elected official can explain himself without constraint before the justice of his country
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of the immunity of hermann winkler, because the facts in question have nothing to do with his political mandate.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this report which welcomes the decision of the united nations general assembly to develop, under the united nations convention on the law of the sea, a legally binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of marine biodiversity in areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction. it stressed the importance of making progress in the development of this new instrument and meeting the target of finalising the text by the end of 2017. meps believe that the eu and the international community should act to conserve and sustainably use marine biodiversity by, inter alia, implementing modern and sustainable concepts of marine ecosystem management and ocean governance principles through:• the controlled exploitation of marine resources (whether mineral exploitation, energy drilling, etc.) and fisheries; • science-based marine governance; • restoring stocks and maintaining them above levels which can produce the maximum sustainable yield; • ecosystem-based management and conservation of marine biodiversity; • the application of existing legislation and the precautionary principle.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this resolution on the fisheries aspects of the future international agreement on marine biodiversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction. the agreement, which was concluded under the united nations convention on the law of the sea, should be a key instrument for the conservation of marine biodiversity worldwide. the close link between fishing opportunities and the conservation of marine biodiversity will have to be taken into account. parliament also stressed the importance of selective fishing techniques, the need to make the fight against iuu fishing a priority and the key role the union should play in the global governance of the seas and oceans.
in writing. ‒ in 1992, the united nations mentioned the importance of protecting the world's waters in the document entitled 'action 21', which was published at the end of the united nations conference on environment and development held in rio de janeiro, brazil, that year. the international community thus recognized the need for an international strategy to combat pollution and the growing threats to marine biodiversity. the johannesburg declaration on sustainable development and the plan of implementation were adopted at the united nations world summit in south africa in september 2002. in 2012, in the document known as rio+20, the international community reaffirmed its determination to tackle environmental problems and the need for sustainable development. in 2004, a special working group was established by united nations general assembly resolution 59/24, paragraph 73. in january 2015, the working group submitted its report, highlighting the need for a comprehensive system at the global level and recommending the development of a legally binding international instrument on the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction. the report adopted today uses the same language.
in writing. - i voted for the text. i just wanted to add that the new agreement should include instruments so that all the actors involved are accountable, since it is difficult, otherwise, to envisage real efficiency and progress. taking into account the needs of developing countries, capacity building and information sharing should also be a priority. from this point of view and from the point of view of the exchange of good practice, the european union should continue to play a leading role during the elaboration of the new instrument as well as during the process of its implementation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because i think it is important that an internationally recognised and legally binding text is drawn up to protect international waters.
in writing. ‒ the eu's zootechnical legislation on the production of farmed animals (bovine, porcine, ovine, caprine and equine species) and their germinal products is composed of various standards that may restrict trade and import into the union. i voted in favour of this proposed codecision regulation because it provides for legal harmonisation of the principles governing the process of rearing high-quality animal species. this single legal framework will allow greater fluidity in their trade and imports.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this legislative resolution. europe’s genetic biodiversity is indispensable to a healthy europe and therefore needs to be protected. as the biodiversity of one member state affects that of the other, this can only be achieved through harmonised eu-wide legislation. however, at the same time, we need to leave enough breathing space for science and innovation. in its current form, this resolution will do both these things. it will protect our valuable local breeds both efficiently and effectively, where needed. with regard to innovation, it calls for harmonisation and simplification. the combination of these two will result in a healthier, more competitive livestock industry, increasing the eu’s competitiveness and ensuring the food-safety of our citizens. it will be easier to import animals and their genetic material for the sake of breeding, according to specific, transparent and harmonised rules, that are safeguarded by one central authority.
in writing. the purpose of this revision of the current legislation is to bring together the separate and specific rules on trade, import and registration of breeding animals and derived products traded for breeding purposes into a single legal framework. this revision has the advantage of providing greater clarity for all those involved in the sector, while maintaining competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which includes the following measures: introducing special provisions for rare and endangered breeds; seeking a balanced approach as regards the grounds for derogation from the approval of a breeding body, between the preservation and management of purebred breeds and the internal market; a guarantee of a minimum level of rights and obligations for breeders and breeding establishments and bodies, as well as additional rights in the event of membership and seasonal movement of animals; the application of the principle of subsidiarity to dispute settlement (national law and private settlement mechanisms); and simplification of official controls and of controls carried out by the commission without compromising efficiency and quality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products. the associations concerned in belgium have not reported any negative consequences on their activities.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this report because this regulation threatens to jeopardise the future of the export of the semen of the belgian white-blue breed. the amendments tabled in the committee on agriculture are not problematic in my view, but they do not remove the threat of a decline in the export of the semen of our belgian white-blue breed. i abstained in order to send a signal to the european commission and the council to dismiss this threat. the export of sperm from our white-blue breed must be allowed, because it is a breed that is characteristic of our livestock production (and of which we are proud) and there is a great demand for it abroad.
in writing. ‒ i have of course supported this report, which advocates a pluralist and open approach to migration. the report stresses the fundamental importance of continuing search and rescue operations at sea and calls for the replacement of the dublin system by a centralised european system based on solidarity, which would distribute refugees in a solidarity-based and mandatory manner among member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. finally, it advocates adequate funding for humanitarian aid.
in writing. – the situation in the mediterranean is dire. the only way we can find a solution is to adopt an approach at eu level. that is why i voted in favour of this parliamentary resolution. it does not just focus on the usual negative aspects – such as smuggling and human trafficking – of this issue. it investigates how we could actually resolve the situation, such as the cooperation with third countries through regional protection programmes and by developing legal economic migration channels. in addition, it stresses the importance of taking responsibility in adhering to the systems that are in place, for example, by stressing the importance of how emergency funds are spent and the effective implementation of the common european asylum system. most importantly, it indicates which steps are needed in order for the common european asylum system (ceas) to become a uniform and therefore efficient system. in this regard the resolution calls upon going even further, stressing that article 78 (2) on ‘a uniform status of asylum’ that would be valid throughout the union, is fully implemented. finally, it acknowledges the necessity of reinforcing frontex and of the new european border and coast guard.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by parliament of its report on the need for a holistic european approach to migration. the report, which is the fruit of long but fruitful work in the libe committee, expresses parliament's position on european migration policy and sets out the paths for future reforms. these are in line with what the alde group has been advocating for several months: adoption of a resettlement mechanism, a complete overhaul of the dublin system to ensure a fair sharing between member states and substantial strengthening of the european asylum support office (easo) are all measures that will have to be taken to ensure the coherence and effectiveness of our asylum policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the long-term management of migration in the european union, which calls for a radical revision of the dublin system. the text of the report also calls for safe and legal channels for the entry of third country nationals into the union without the latter having to resort to smugglers and risk their lives. the vote on this text was also an opportunity to point out the failure of the european asylum system to cope with the ever-increasing number of migrants arriving. the radical reform required of the so-called dublin rules proposes to create a central system for collecting and distributing asylum applications. the system could include a quota for each eu member state and would operate on the basis of access points (hotspots) from which refugees would be distributed.
in writing. - i voted for my colleague's report. i share the view that the approach to migration in europe needs to be radically and permanently changed. any viable long-term strategy must cover all aspects of migration and asylum, including foreign and diplomatic policies, the global crime economy, the delivery of humanitarian aid and better assistance to people already in europe. in addition, the gender dimension must be integrated into all policy areas.
in writing. ‒ i was responsible for this dossier in the liberal group. the current refugee crisis proves again and again that our current system of migration is no longer workable in today's reality. in europe, we urgently need a collective european response to this crisis. only in this way can we solve the dramatic humanitarian situation today.
in writing. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are important for a coherent and structured policy. the first determines the most appropriate level of intervention in areas of shared competence between the european union and its member states, while the second guides the union's actions in the exercise of its competence. i voted in favour of these annual reports, which are an examination of the strict application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality because they must be respected, especially at a time when the institutions of the european union are criticised as being too intrusive in the political action of the national, regional and local authorities of the member states.
in writing. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are fundamental principles of the eu, under which the union may act in areas not falling within its exclusive competence only 'if and to the extent that the objectives of the proposed action cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states, either at central, regional or local level, but can rather, by reason of the scale or effects of the proposed action, be better achieved at union level' and provided that 'the content and form of the union's action do not exceed what is necessary to achieve the objectives of the treaties'. in order to promote a genuine 'culture of subsidiarity' within the union, i believe it would be appropriate to extend the period of consultation of national parliaments from 8 to 12 weeks for subsidiarity analyses, as in most cases national parliaments have internal priorities imposed by national legislation. this extension of the consultation period would imply an amendment of the treaty and should therefore entail a revision of the treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which welcomes the increased participation and involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process in recent years, but notes that efforts still need to be made in this regard. for example, the text adopted suggests that, as a first step, the european commission should hold an annual debate with each national parliament to strengthen its dialogue with them.
in writing. ‒ we note that the existing preferential trade agreements have shown that they can be beneficial to the european economy and generate growth and jobs. the effects of trade agreements are dependent on the outcome of the negotiations and therefore projections of impact are always based on assumptions. the commission should therefore carry out the sustainable development impact assessments before the opening of negotiations on trade agreements as part of an ex ante impact assessment exercise to analyse the economic, social and environmental impacts on union citizens and businesses, and in particular on smes. member states should also play a crucial role in assessing the potential benefits and impacts of preferential trade agreements on their own economies. i stress the crucial importance of an adequate mechanism for consultation, dialogue and participation of citizens, businesses (in particular smes) and civil society in the decision-making process on the union's trade policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these annual reports because the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are a key guide for european policy-making. these reports provide a great deal of information on the activities of the european institutions in relation to these two principles.
in writing. - i abstained on this report by my colleague kaufmann. on the one hand, i would like to emphasize the quality of this report, which makes it clear on several occasions that simplification of european legislation cannot undermine environmental, health and social standards and must respect the implementation of agreements between the social partners. on the other hand, we still regard the refit programme as a potential danger to the health of workers and the protection of the environment, which is why i abstained.
in writing. it is essential to strengthen and improve the european regulatory framework in order to move towards a 'sharp' european union regulation which is part of the 'better lawmaking' interinstitutional agreement. better legislation is about working for a dynamic europe that creates growth and jobs. it is to work for effective, transparent and legible legislation for businesses, in particular smes and micro-enterprises. it is also working in the interests of workers' rights. in order to strike the right balance, impact assessments of legislative proposals must be carried out in a systematic and rigorous manner. replacing 28 national standards with a european standard requires working with all the european bodies and all the actors concerned.
in writing. ‒ 74% of europeans think that the european union generates too much bureaucracy. in response to this concern, the commission has in recent years been working to streamline legislation and reduce regulatory constraints. this is even more true under the commission chaired by jean-claude juncker. a desire to reduce the 'law-making machine' which sometimes has a negative impact on an entire chain of economic activity and which contributes to the citizens' distrust of the european union. it is therefore natural that i have supported the kaufmann report on the annual progress in implementing the programme for a sharper and more efficient regulation (refit). i also supported, like the majority of members, paragraph 47 rejecting the nutritional profiles. an interesting idea, but one that has proved impossible to implement since the first discussions on the subject in 2006. in practice, when the sugar, saturated fatty acids and sodium thresholds are exceeded, products would no longer be allowed to claim their other nutritional characteristics. to illustrate: a cheese that is too high in fatty acids could no longer emphasize the fact that it is also high in calcium. that's a bit much to ask.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote against the kaufmann report in plenary. while pursuing better regulation should be one of our objectives as meps, i remain concerned about the negative impact that a programme such as refit can have. firstly, because at times this text tends to encourage the commission not to adopt proposals which would have a negative impact on competitiveness without taking into account the potential benefits for workers and citizens. i am also concerned about the possibility for the commission to withdraw a legislative proposal if the council has not yet decided on it. i must admit, however, that this report also contains important advances aimed at defending the interests of consumers, workers and citizens more generally. i say and i repeat that i am in favour of regulatory simplification which can provide relief to smes without harming workers, consumers and citizens. this message is beginning to be heard, and i can only rejoice to see the lines moving on this.
in writing. - i abstained in the final vote. i am very much against this way of doing legislation and politics, and i am very much against what refit has become, namely a legislative proposal for all. however, i must admit that the text does make some important progress. that explains my decision.
in writing. ‒ european regulations are often too complex and too opaque. moreover, european rules all too often lead to an additional administrative burden. this is especially true for smes, which often cannot benefit from relevant european regulation because of the administrative costs and the lack of clarity about the regulation. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal, since it aims to simplify european union law and its possible transposition considerably.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which in my view favours too much of a liberal view of the functioning of the single market, without paying sufficient attention to the social, human and environmental dimensions of the european project.
in writing. – it should come as no surprise that i strongly approve this parliamentary resolution. i always grasp the opportunity to improve single market legislation. this resolution stresses the importance of delivering a competitive regulatory environment in order to ensure the competitiveness of the eu. in this regard, the resolution focuses on every step of the policy process. concerning impact assessments, it stresses the importance of their effectiveness and importance as a policy tool, followed by the necessity of transparency and inclusiveness during the consultation process. the whole process would of course, be useless if there were no actual full implementation of the single market legislation. therefore, the resolution reminds the commission of the importance of regularly executing its monitoring function. it hereby reminds us of the commission’s complementary role as a problem-solver.
in writing. the single market is 508 million consumers and a huge potential market for businesses. this pillar of the european construction is the basis of our prosperity and influence in the world. we have a highly skilled workforce, which makes europe competitive. but to stay that way, it has to keep innovating. europe alone is the solution to the sometimes frightening challenges that too often leave us in doubt and uncertainty. but a successful europe is one which innovates, which works in transparency, which applies the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, which tends to be closest to the needs and expectations of the citizens. it is also a europe that is willing to challenge itself in order to create and maintain favourable conditions for our businesses. impact assessments will help to identify more effectively the legislation that is truly effective, modern and capable of delivering concrete results.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the van bossuyt report because i do not share the report's view of what better regulation of the internal market should be. as a committed european, i am of course in favour of better regulation for our internal market. the rapporteur, however, believes that better regulation should concern only businesses and consumers and should be aimed at improving competitiveness. the involvement of smes and consumers is as important as that of workers. unfortunately, it seems that the rapporteur does not share my view. as regards impact assessments, i am rather in favour of the european institutions having the means to help them in their choices. however, these analyses cannot in any way replace political analyses and decisions. unfortunately, some passages in this report tend to give these impact assessments an importance they should not have. other elements in this report do not correspond to the vision of society which i am advocating in this parliament, which is why i have decided to vote against this report.
in writing. ‒ many in europe now believe that more efficient and in some cases less regulation will ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. this report by mr van bossuyt illustrates that parties can exploit this discourse to push for complete deregulation. the report 'towards better regulation of the internal market' does not seek better regulation. on the contrary, it seems to want to block any form of european regulation. the proposal to introduce a 'red card system' allowing national parliaments to delay the legislative process was blocked. however, there are many other elements, including the disregard for the european level of regulation of the internal market, which make this report unacceptable. we have tried to steer this report in the right direction by means of amendments. we stressed the need for european regulation in the pursuit of sustainable development and consumer protection. we stressed that only unjustified barriers to trade should disappear and called for a multidimensional approach to policy outcomes that takes into account social and environmental aspects. unfortunately, all the amendments we tabled were rejected. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against the text. i cannot share the rapporteur's view of the matter. improved regulation of the single market must be dealt with differently and, among other things, by putting workers' rights at the centre of priorities!
in writing. ‒ more than 20 years after its creation, the internal market is still too fragmented. it is time now to commit ourselves to a full internal market based on the principle of shared responsibility. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ according to a 2014 eurobarometer survey, 44% of eu citizens feel they have only a limited understanding of how the union works. the report proposes a series of initiatives to better integrate the european dimension into education systems. among these initiatives, the report - which i have approved - calls for better integration of european integration into teaching and extra-curricular material, for providing teachers with materials and resources to enable them to incorporate an eu dimension in their teaching, and for promoting multilingualism and intercultural skills among educators.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of this report calling on member states to strengthen the european dimension in education. many european citizens do not feel close to the european project. this distance is linked in particular to a lack of knowledge about the european union. a survey shows that 44% of europeans do not understand how the european union works and many feel that they cannot make their voices heard. at a time when we are experiencing a major identity crisis and witnessing an alarming rise in euroscepticism everywhere, it seems to me essential to better integrate the european dimension into school curricula and to integrate this dimension with the other subjects taught so that current and future generations are better aware of their rights, learn about the history of europe and are informed about the many ways in which they can get involved in a better europe.
research shows that 44% of citizens feel they do not know how europe works. 52% of european citizens also think that their vote does not count in the eu. the eu is still not sufficiently known. it is plausible that this sometimes leads to confusion, disappointment and misunderstanding about the functioning of the eu. it is therefore advisable to bridge the information gap that has arisen between the citizens of europe and the european institutions. education is an important lever to help young people bridge that gap and better understand the eu. in order to better understand the impact of the eu on people's daily lives, this report calls for a more intensive and visible integration of the eu dimension into teaching material. in addition to the transfer of knowledge about europe, it is desirable to teach young people skills that promote european citizenship. in this way, young people are taught to think critically about european decision-making, while encouraged to promote the sense of community and the eu's fundamental values.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon's vote calls for europe to be taught in schools in a more coherent way in each member state and in a way that is more complementary to the other subjects taught. forty-four per cent of europeans do not understand how the eu works: this is unacceptable. how can citizens know their rights, make their voices heard, and get involved in shaping the europe of tomorrow if the democratic institutions and mechanisms that serve them remain a mystery to them? a 2013 icf ghk survey found that 85% of member states were already talking about europe to their schoolchildren. what today's report wants to do is to reinforce these figures and make europe's learning more coherent and structured. this demand is part of a real effort to open up the institutions and combat euroscepticism, to make european democracy live!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the drăghici report on learning about the european union in school because i am convinced that there is a real need to know and understand europe in order to allow it to evolve and even change the way it works. from an early age, european citizens need to learn about the history and values of the eu, as this knowledge is essential for understanding each other and for jointly developing - and involving - the european project. the commission is asked to propose a common framework for learning about the european union and to strengthen the european mobility of learners. member states retain their primacy in education, so they will have to facilitate 'intercultural, non-discriminatory and inclusive education' and promote the values of citizenship in their school and university curricula. it is by deconstructing prejudices and caricatures through knowledge, while promoting critical thinking, that we can, together, make the european project more enchanting.
in writing. ‒ the report rightly emphasises that the eu is made up of its member states, each with a unique history and culture. it is also positive that the emphasis is on informing citizens. this should enable critical reflection and debate on the importance of european cooperation. although the report recognises the competence of the member states in matters of education and training policy, it seems to ignore this in certain paragraphs. in particular, the report is often too prescriptive when it comes to education in relation to the past and future of european integration. the nva delegation therefore abstained from voting.
in writing. - i am of course in favour of this initiative. the growing importance of a european dimension in education across the different disciplines and levels and forms of education should be emphasised, while stressing the need for a broad and thorough understanding of the concept which takes account of its complex, dynamic and multidimensional nature, with learning about the union at school being an essential element.
in writing. ‒ according to a eurobarometer survey, 71% of all europeans feel that they do not understand how the european union works. moreover, 52% of all european citizens feel that their vote does not count in europe. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that this measure can reduce these disastrous figures in the long term.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this report, which calls in particular for the removal of all socioeconomic barriers that undermine equal access for all to vocational education and training (vet) opportunities and calls on the commission, in particular, to increase the visibility of vet programmes or to promote the european mobility of apprentices. the persisting level of unemployment in the union requires that vocational training, which is an essential tool in combating school dropouts, skills mismatches and any other reason that prevents access to employment for thousands of european citizens, be strengthened by all relevant levers.
in writing. – the competitiveness of the eu depends on the quality of our workforce. in order to answer to the needs of our companies, it is essential that it is as flexible as possible. an important tool that helps us to achieve this goal is the erasmus+ exchange programme of which we can already reap the benefits. after having this programme in force for several years now, it was time for an evaluation. although the programme is overall successful, some apparent problems came to light. one of these is the gap between academic and vocational educational training (vet). systems such as europass and ecvet were designed to address these problems but have encountered opposition themselves. this makes the accreditation between educational institutions of various countries more difficult. such imbalances are also reflected in the unemployment data from across the eu. following the report of 4 march, this resolution stresses the need for a more extensive and more qualitative erasmus+ programme, for a more varying number of students. to incentivise the programme, a list of 10 objectives has been created, which will serve as a guideline. having taken all of the above into account, i have approved of this parliamentary resolution.
in writing. the european student exchange programme, erasmus, is one of the success stories of the european union. in 2012-2013, some 270 000 young people completed part of their academic course in another european university through this programme. in addition to the opportunity to refine language learning, erasmus is a unique experience of openness to europe. 'erasmus+': with a budget of €14 billion for the period 2014-2020, it offers 4 million young europeans the opportunity to study or train abroad. this new programme covers not only training, education and youth but also, for the first time, sport. under erasmus+, students who have not had the chance to win a scholarship will have the opportunity to receive a loan on favourable terms to study a master's degree in another eu country. i would like the union to go even further in the field of the use of languages. in my view, the system in place in european schools (learning several languages from an early age) should be the basis of the curricula in the member states.
in writing. ‒ this vote extends the erasmus+ programme to include apprenticeships and vocational training. erasmus+ is an eu programme for education, training, youth and sport in europe, established in 1987. it has a budget of €14.7 billion and helps to provide over four million europeans with the opportunity to study, train, gain experience or volunteer abroad. parliament today called for better coordination of this great asset for young people, and for local authorities, businesses, chambers of commerce and trade unions to develop inclusive and ambitious learning partnerships. it also called for the validation of skills to be better recognised, including when developed in the context of vocational or non-formal learning. life paths are changing and lifelong learning is a growing phenomenon that needs to be encouraged and facilitated. in this respect, erasmus+ is an essential tool for social cohesion, innovation, growth and jobs across the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the maragall report on erasmus+, to which i contributed, because the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy are far from being achieved in the field of education and there is more need than ever to promote mobility for all learners, particularly in the vocational pathways of alternance education. in the european parliament, with members from the different political parties, we are setting up a pilot project for erasmus pro, convinced that mobility and alternance, supported at national and european level, open a royal road to learning leading to employment. we also suggest that the commission should create a 'european student e-card' and bring about the european apprenticeship.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted in favour of this report. erasmus+ deserves our attention and support. investments in education, training and informal learning are important to give people the opportunity to develop and develop continuously, i.e. to learn throughout their lives. this will benefit labour mobility and subsequently the level of employment. the nva delegation would like to emphasise that it is the eu member states that are responsible for education and training policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment on erasmus+ and other tools to promote mobility in vocational education and training: a lifelong learning approach. i am pleased that an overwhelming majority of members voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ as a student, i studied in madrid for three months under the erasmus programme and it was a wonderful experience. that is why i was very pleased to vote for the erasmus+ report. this will also enable students in vocational training to benefit from an erasmus experience.
in writing. ‒ this report will allow for better international regulatory cooperation, more transparency, accountability and democratisation. the mandate of each organisation should be clarified, as well as the ways in which they operate and are financed, including voluntary contributions, gifts and donations, in order to ensure the legality of decisions and the absence of special interests.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this parliamentary resolution because it offers specific and targeted guidelines for the eu to follow if it wants to address the challenges of tomorrow. we live in a globalised world at a rapid pace. for the eu, such an environment means that it is ever more important to adapt ourselves to this changing environment. this resolution calls for this to be done, by for example taking the 2030 agenda for sustainable development into account. our priority should lie in defending our union and the values it stands for. at the same time, we need to ensure that our neighbourhood regains its stability and remains stable, facilitating the de-escalation of conflicts. in order to do so, the eu needs to be a strong actor in an environment of multilateral global governance. this resolution correctly implies that only a unified europe can achieve this goal. in addition, it mentions what is specifically needed to achieve these goals: strengthened eu competences and resources in csdp and cfsp, and a more prominent role for the vice-president / high representative in conflict resolution and crisis management. finally, the resolution stresses the importance of engaging eu citizens in the process, which is something i can only applaud.
in writing. the current financial situation calls for action at european level, but above all at global level. the fragmentation and diversity of international financial institutions make it difficult to achieve genuine global governance. regulatory cooperation should therefore be considerably strengthened, for example by ensuring better policy coordination between global institutions. common standards will have to be established. the european union must be at the forefront of these issues. by its construction it has a background which enables it to better understand the necessary dynamics which will enable the various international actors to cooperate. we need to be proactive and propose initiatives to respond, in particular, to the transformation of the shadow banking system and to systemic risks.
in writing. ‒ the report is clear: european action in international economic and financial forums must be streamlined, and more room for transparency and democracy. three of the points in this text seem to me particularly important. first, the stability of the international financial system depends on the observance of rules of conduct which apply to all. secondly, the change in scale and the international nature of these negotiations cannot justify opacity or a dilution of responsibilities. finally, the eu and the euro area must now, more than ever, give each other the means to defend their strategic interests. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. they reaffirmed the central role of the european parliament, the democratic body of the union, in defining the guidelines of european positions. finally, they called for national parliaments to be able to play their full role in monitoring representatives in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for a rationalisation of the representation of the european union's interests in international financial organisations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. beyond the imf alone, a gradual rationalization of the union's representation should be implemented over the next few years, first by means of enhanced coordination and then, after an evaluation, by unification of seats. parliament also calls for, and i welcome this, a thorough assessment of the dual presidencies of the european council and the european commission in the g20 to determine to what extent these arrangements weaken europe's credibility abroad.
in writing. ‒ it is important to strengthen regulatory cooperation at global level, with strong involvement of the european parliament. the text also raises concerns about the lack of coherence caused by the fragmentation and diversity of organisations/bodies and the delays in the implementation of rules and guidelines adopted at international level.
in writing. ‒ this report is very clear: the european union's action in international economic and financial institutions and bodies must be more streamlined, transparent and democratic. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing accounts for 80% of the european fleet. it is therefore an extremely important source of employment and income for many european regions. i therefore endorsed this report, which calls on the commission to take account of small-scale coastal fishing in island societies, to support innovative projects for coastal areas and to take measures to support groups of seafarers by encouraging their participation in all areas related to fishing.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by parliament of this report on innovation and diversification of small-scale coastal fishing in fisheries-dependent regions. the coastal fisheries are of crucial importance for their social, economic and environmental benefits and should be preserved as far as possible. innovation and diversification will both contribute to the economic development of coastal fishing areas. as regards innovation, improved collection of reliable and up-to-date data and their accessibility will be an essential prerequisite for the development of innovation. in terms of diversification, sustainable tourism has the potential to play a particularly beneficial role for coastal communities. marine and underwater tourism can combine awareness of the environment and biodiversity with the economic development of regions dependent on coastal fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because coastal fishing in the european union is important in more than one way: not only is it a sector that provides jobs in coastal areas, but it is also socially and ecologically sustainable. the areas which depend on coastal fishing therefore require specific measures and support to ensure their growth and development. the 2013 regulation on the common fisheries policy focused on the economic development of these coastal regions. it also recognises the importance of the island regions on the high seas which depend on fisheries and which need to be supported so that they can survive and develop.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal which asks the commission to adapt the definition of coastal and small-scale coastal or traditional fisheries to the socioeconomic characteristics and specificities of the different territories, and not just to the size and power of fishing vessels, because the existing eu provisions are unsatisfactory. we would also like to use regionalisation to adapt the definition of coastal fisheries to the specificities of each fishery.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that support for small-scale coastal fishing is important for the viability of certain communities and will lead to an improvement in maritime tourism on european islands.
in writing. ‒ i am realistic that a global problem requires a global solution. the climate crisis is the best example of this, and we need to move forward to live in a greener world. another is sustainable management of fisheries resources. this can only be achieved through international cooperation, through multilateral and bilateral agreements that will stand together for good governance of the seas and oceans. i voted in favour of this report because it will ensure coherence between fisheries policy, environmental policy, trade policy and development cooperation, while at the same time strengthening the social and environmental standards of the european union in its internal and external fisheries policy.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on common rules for the application of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, including fisheries agreements. the external fisheries policy of the union, whether in the framework of bilateral agreements or within the rfmos, will be of paramount importance for the conservation of global fisheries resources and hence for the sustainability of fishing opportunities. the responsible management of marine resources at global level can only be achieved jointly, through increased consultation and cooperation between countries. the union must therefore use all its influence and intensify its efforts to persuade them to apply to their fleet the principles which guide the union's policy in this area, including sustainability and the precautionary principle.
in writing. ‒ the european union is currently the world's largest market for fishery products. the marketing of fishery products in the union is subject to strict measures in terms of traceability, verification of catches and the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. the significant improvements that the iuu regulation has brought to the legislation and fishing activities of many countries around the world are proof that this 'top-down approach' can work, if the european union shows the political will and gives the necessary impetus and if it helps developing countries to meet the new requirements.
in writing. ‒ the union's new cfp is making significant progress and, if properly implemented, will improve standards in european long-distance fishing. in view of the treaty's requirements for development policies, we can only welcome this. given its influence in the world of fisheries, as a flag state and, more particularly, a trading state, the european union is well placed to encourage other actors, whether coastal or long-distance fishing states, to improve their own fisheries policies, not only in theory but also in practice. the considerable effectiveness with which the iuu regulation has improved the legislation and fishing activities of many countries around the world is proof that this 'top-down approach' can work, if the european union shows the necessary political will, sufficient leadership and objectivity, and if it helps developing countries to meet the new requirements. that is why recent signs of a weakening of the union's resolve to combat iuu fishing, notably by the elimination of korea, are worrying.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it will promote the sustainability of the european fisheries sector.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the first thing i would like to do is to thank jean-claude juncker for his words for my country, belgium. i agree with him that what we must not do now is repeat the ritual of using strong words and making solemn declarations. now is the moment to act and to make a number of changes. i fully agree with him. this is the opposite of what mr kamall is saying; it is fragmentation which is the problem in europe, and our intelligence services and police services have to work better with each other. well, i can tell you, mr kamall, that we have been hearing this so-called recipe for decades. it is not a recipe. we need european capacities; this is also the lesson from history. in america the federal bureau of investigation was created in 1901 after the terrorist attack where president mckinley, the president of the usa at that time, was killed. in germany it was exactly the same story. the bundeskriminalamt was upgraded and was created as a federal agency after the rote armee fraktion attacks. that was their lesson from history, and it is time, mr kamall, that your group also learned that lesson, and that we created european capacities and european capabilities to solve the problem. let us be honest. let us face the reality. i have here the long list of all the terrorist attacks in recent years. in madrid the perpetrators were known to the french and british police. in london the attackers responsible for the bombing were followed and even partially arrested by the french police. the attack on a jewish museum in brussels was by a french terrorist known to the french authorities and even by the german intelligence services. it is the same story for charlie hebdo. they were known by the british authorities before the attacks. the same goes for abdeslam, who was not stopped at the roadblock in cambrai because the french did not have him in their files, while the belgians knew very well who he was. the same goes for what the germans did a few weeks before the attacks in paris. they found weapons and did not inform their french colleagues at that time. the same is now true again in the attacks in brussels, where apparently the swedish had information and did not send it to the belgian authorities. how many attacks, mr kamall, are still needed before everybody understands that we need a real investigation capacity at european level as quickly as possible? let us face the reality. we have the possibility to do so. terrorists do not know borders. it is our police services and our intelligence services who know borders. we have the possibility now to change that and to build that up, mr avramopoulos, because we have the file on europol. we have finished the second reading. my proposal is to use the second reading between parliament and council to make a few amendments; not to delay it again until the end of the year, but to act immediately in the coming weeks. there are three changes that can be made. first of all, change the regulation of europol in articles 1 and 3 and give them the possibility of having an investigation capacity and not only a coordination role. that is the first proposal. my second proposal is that we amend article 6 of the regulation to finally give europol the possibility to launch an investigation or oblige national authorities to do so. they do not even have that possibility today. finally, and maybe the most important problem, article 7 of the regulation, mr avramopoulos, currently says that the national authorities of europol have to filter the information to europol. i thought what they had to do was the opposite, namely to transfer the relevant data to europol. so my proposal is that, instead of talking again about coordination, coordination, cooperation, cooperation – enough of these words – we use the europol file to put that in place and also to change the role of the european prosecutor, because the european prosecutor cannot only be responsible for financial fraud. we need to change that so that the prosecutor is also responsible for transnational crimes like, for example, terrorism. so that is my proposal: rather than making minor fixes to an old europol file, to use it in the coming weeks to make a leap forward and to do what the americans did 115 years ago. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– all storage of data can be useful, including passenger name records, on the condition that there is the capacity to analyse it, to transfer it from one authority to the other, and that there are no walls between the different databases. that is why i am proposing this european capacity for intelligence and this european capacity for investigation. besides the fact that we are going to create 28 databases, it is also necessary that the commission comes forward as soon as possible with a horizontal system for mandatory sharing of information, without which it is a useless tool. that is also an initiative i am asking of the commission.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how can we not be shocked by the irreparable loss of these human lives, by the upheaval of these lives that are always in pain, by these coldly prepared acts of death? we are deeply sorry for the victims of these heinous acts and their families. but how can we not be concerned when danger lurks in the most trivial gestures and movements of our daily lives? it is a matter of outrage that, as guy verhofstadt has so well said, most of the perpetrators of these attacks and those in paris were identified long ago, but that, because of the lack of information and, above all, because of the lack of exploitation, they were left free to move about. how can we not be shocked that even today our countries are trading, including arms, with the states of the middle east which promote the most violent and fundamentalist forms of islam? finally, how can we fail to ask ourselves what has created within our societies a fertile ground for hate speech and violence - discrimination, inequality, exclusion, the reduction of human beings to a factor of production or consumption? my dear colleagues, if we were to respond to these attacks by establishing police states, constantly monitoring our every move, by stigmatising our fellow muslims even more, by closing our society to itself and by adopting a warlike rhetoric dividing the world into 'them' and 'us', the terrorists would have won. on the contrary, the best answer we can offer them is one which so well matches the belgian and european currencies, "unity in diversity is strength". let us face them, by intelligently joining forces to derail their murderous plans, but above all by ensuring that our societies put human dignity, the dignity of every human being, at the heart of their project. i would like to conclude, mr president, if i may, with a short quote from my corsican friend jean-françois bernardini: 'excuse nothing, forget nothing, resist, seek to understand, otherwise we are maintaining evil. darkness, you can't fight it with darkness. hate, you don't fight with hate. an eye for an eye and the universe, our entire planet, will become blind". paris has left us 130 reasons to live, to fight and to believe; brussels gives us 32 more. thank you.
"blue card" question. what is it? do you really think that closing the borders will be the solution to deal with this? do you really think that the netherlands and you alone are going to fight this terror? i have to be honest with you. my stomach is turning when i hear your speech. if you think that all muslims are terrorists, then i would ask you to read the history books very carefully. i think you're just trying to scare people away with your speech. let us use this hemisphere to give honest commentary on these crimes.
mr president, on 22 march, barbarism plunged us into horror. on 22 march, terrorism struck at our very heart, the heart of europe. on 22 march, we were all victims to varying degrees of these attacks, which are nothing but attacks on our rights, our freedoms, our way of life. in the face of these heinous acts, we must stand firm and be uncompromising towards those who want to shed blood and establish a reign of terror. we must not concede any of our democratic gains, because if the democrats run, it is the terrorists and fascists who will take the field. my dear colleagues, we must put aside our political differences and take the necessary action together to put an end to these atrocities. we must focus on security, a fundamental right for all citizens. you can't feel free in fear. we must strengthen both prevention and repression. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. we must guarantee peace to our fellow citizens. only together can we defeat terrorism. it is also clear that under the un mandate, daesh must be removed from harm's way, and we must allow this part of the world to live in peace and stability. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, nothing will ever defeat our values and principles. solidarity, tolerance and coexistence will never be destroyed by the bullets of any terrorist. whether these barbarians like it or not, for there is no other word to describe their actions, we will continue to fight for our freedom, our freedoms, and this will pass through more of europe, mr kamall does not like it. it will be through more europe and better europe!
first of all, i would like to express my condolences on behalf of my delegation to the families of the victims of the terror attack that struck my city on 22 march. we wish all those who have been hit or injured much strength and a speedy recovery. i also want to pay tribute to our emergency services and law enforcement. the attacks in brussels, a stone's throw from my office and my home, have shocked us deeply. brussels is the city where i spent my childhood, brussels is in my pocket. the real brussels people are open and tolerant, have a sense of humour and love life, and that is why terrorism strikes us so deeply in our hearts and souls. i know very well, firsthand, that citizens also count on us to make them feel safe again. the european union can indeed add value through targeted initiatives. what my delegation therefore expects from this parliament is that it will give its full support to useful new legislation, such as that on european passenger data. it is a pity that this dossier has been blocked in this house despite the great efforts of national authorities. that this dossier was opposed in this house even after paris is shameful! how ironic that some here are calling for a european fbi and therefore for a change in the treaties - mr verhofstadt is sadly already gone - but at the same time blocking legislative proposals aimed at information exchange? and there 's no doubt about it . syrian fighters, europeans are returning to europe to shed blood on the instructions of isis. is it really that much to ask that we set aside the usual dogmas and interests so that these people no longer slip through the cracks of the net? i call for support for this motion on thursday. i address the council: certain member states are less diligent in exchanging information. the new counter-terrorism unit within europol must become a hub of cooperation, or we will not get there! switch to data exchange! i also have a very specific question for the commission - mr juncker has already mentioned the inadequate use of existing information -: why is it that europol is barely able to search the european databases vis, sis and eurodac, which contain the names of wanted persons? the agency was given permission to do so, but that opportunity is being underutilized, as you yourself published last week.
first of all, i too would like to express my condolences to the victims of that terrible act. it was not only the belgians who were deeply affected. brussels is the capital of all of us. it is the european capital and in that sense it has struck at our very heart. i have to say: i am a little disappointed, if not deeply disappointed, at the debate that is taking place here. i'm used to the far right pointing the finger at democrats. but i am not used to the fact that after such a dramatic attack, there is a little finger pointing between the democratic groups. what the belgians and the europeans are asking for is cooperation and solutions from all of us. in this respect, i support the many proposals made here to strengthen security in europe. but i have an extra message to deliver today. terrorists do not target a country, a nation, or a community of people. the attack was not against the belgians, the french or the people of brussels, but against the way we live, against the very heart of our european values. so part of the solution will be to develop those values together by pushing them forward in our education. we must educate our children, our young people, with european values: i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. that will be essential and is part of the solution. this also contributes to a european identity. a european identity is what we need and, strange as it may sound, is part of the solution.
mr president, my country, belgium, is wounded. it is not the first country, and unfortunately, probably not the last to face the horror of the bloodiest terrorism. our grief is immense for the victims, and we thank all who share it with us. of course, we acknowledge some weaknesses, some failings, even our belated awareness of what was swarming in some quarters of our capital. but this is no reason, as some do, to gloat as if our country had become the capital of crime and the sole responsible for the terrorist attacks that have taken place all over europe. our police, our intelligence, our fire, our health services do not deserve these unjust accusations and this shameful treatment, and i want to publicly stand with them and thank them. let us stop, mr president, looking for scapegoats or archaic solutions, of which some are the singers. let us become better together, let us expand the mandate and the means of europol, let us interconnect the european data banks we have created, let us make the transmission of sensitive data compulsory. it is together that we are attacked, it is together that we will win.
i would like to say that i, as a member of parliament who is still a belgian national, regret the tone with which you, mr president schulz, yesterday, at the memorial service for the victims of the brussels attacks, immediately tried to make the attacks look like an external extremism that has happened to us. i want to protest this blindness. of course, not all muslims are terrorists - and that need not be repeated over and over again, because no one is claiming it - but please let us not be naive. if yesterday we were to read in the new york times that almost 90 per cent of the educated youth in the muslim enclaves of brussels regard the suicide bombers of 22 march as "heroes", then we must dare to say: your post-war immigration policy and islamic socialism have failed completely. it is not an external cause, but the political regimes of the european union that are responsible for this.
it is exactly three weeks ago today, the horror of that terrible tuesday, march 22, is still in our minds and in our bodies. thirty-two people were murdered in a cowardly way there and for many families, for all of us, i think we can say that 22 march will remain a black day in the annals of history. could these attacks have been prevented? we could have asked the same question when the attacks took place in london, paris, madrid, etc. it is a collective responsibility, as president juncker rightly pointed out earlier. so let us not look for scapegoats today, but let us look for structural measures to prevent this horror from happening again in the future. indeed, much of this is at european level. it is our duty in the coming weeks - not in the coming months or years - to give the victims, the families, the guarantee that we will not let this momentum pass and that we will take these measures now. the exchange of information between national intelligence services is essential, as has been said many times here. it is essential that this exchange be made more effective and be stepped up. a european fbi would be great, of course, but that would take time and would never work with 28 member states. so let us concentrate on the measures that are possible, let us set up this exchange between the intelligence services with those countries, governments and national authorities, madam president of the european council, with a coalition of the willing. let us also dry up the finances of the terrorist networks so that information on their financing can be exchanged efficiently and they can be dried up. let us, ladies and gentlemen, please approve this exchange of passenger data, the so-called pnr, on thursday. i would like to say to the president-in-office of the council: we also count on your willing cooperation, we count on you using your network, your political party contacts, all your influence to convince your political party contacts in this house to approve that pnr on thursday. i think we should do this now! that we owe this to the 32 victims and their families. (the speaker will reply to a question on a blue card in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. i refer to what our group chairman, mr weber, said earlier in reply to a similar question. i think we have built maximum guarantees into the pnr proposals on the table today. we do not want to see the united states in a situation where the data of all citizens are being thrown out. there are explicit and very clear maximum guarantees for the preservation of privacy, for the granting of a competent authority that watches that privacy laws are not violated. i think that's built-in to the max. we don't want american conditions. i think it is time we finally adopted the pnr regulation and stopped making all sorts of excuses to introduce last minute amendments and obstacles.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a growing feeling among our citizens that our democracies are no longer working for the benefit of a minority, and i would like to draw everyone's attention to the fact that, ten days after the panama papers scandal, the adoption the day after tomorrow of a directive which, under the pretext of protecting business secrets, will make the work of the journalists and whistleblowers who created panama leaks more complicated is an insult to common sense and democracy. i would add to the european commission, and in particular to commissioner moscovici, that our previous exchange here was rather humorous and lighthearted, and that i no longer have the heart to laugh. i'm rather exasperated, mr moscovici. i'm not sure i can do that. it has been three years since the discovery of offshore leaks, a year and a half since the discovery of luxleaks, 16 months since the country-by-country reporting obligation was imposed on all banks operating in europe, regardless of country, and the european commission has been playing catch-up all this time. you don't want country-by-country reporting that addresses all companies and for all countries. you don't want any of it! i am sorry, there is no argument - i say that, sir, and i look you in the eye, there is no argument that holds for limiting country-by-country reporting to certain companies and certain countries. you have no argument! an sme operating between belgium and france knows how many employees it has in belgium and france, how much tax it pays in belgium and france and what turnover and profits it makes in belgium and france. don't tell me she doesn't have that data, because if she did, it would be badly run businesses. therefore, even a small transnational company has this data. and there is no country that we could not impose it on, that we could not encompass. we have imposed it on the banks and so if you do not do it, you are playing the clock, but for whose benefit? there's only one stakeholder who opposes this measure, and he made his press release today. it is businesseurope, which represents medef, the feb and all the business federations. he is not angry because he knows very well that transparency will cost him not in terms of competitiveness, but in terms of reputation. you're defending their bad reputation. i'm sorry about that.
keihard, this is how we have to deal with the panama scandals, keihard! some people just don't want to contribute. they evade the tax authorities, while the common man on the street has to pay sky-high taxes. you can't! we must fight this, and we will do so by increasing transparency and cooperation between tax authorities. and if there is a desire in this parliament to set up a committee of inquiry, the n-va will support that desire. cooperation, transparency and not increasingly high taxes, because that seems to be the dream of many people in this parliament, always higher taxes, when the reality is that selfemployed people must give more than three quarters of their income to the public authorities. even that is not enough for the government and debts are accumulating. even then, it is not enough, and we are counting on the european central bank, for example, to print money, which is why we are getting caught again: higher taxes, no more interest on our savings. fellas, everything is connected! if we want to reduce taxes, everyone will have to pay their fair share. even those who would rather be under a palm tree in panama!
madam president, history, like an idiot, mechanically repeats itself. it was the french writer and diplomat paul morand, commissioner, who said this in the last century, and unfortunately that is what comes to mind when i discover the excellent work done by the consortium of journalists on the so-called panama papers. these whistleblowers must, of course, be protected, as we have said. this is also what comes to mind when i see the hesitations, the questions, the hesitations sometimes within this house about whether or not to organise a committee of inquiry. i am therefore pleased that the s&d group, along with others, has taken up its responsibilities quickly to call for the creation of a committee of inquiry. i hope that we will be followed and that a majority will emerge, because we cannot be satisfied with a special committee, like those which were set up after the luxleaks scandal. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. it was even necessary to threaten multinationals with being denied access to the european parliament in order to force them to appear before us, and when they did, it was to make an agreed speech and refrain from answering our questions. this has not prevented us from making a large number of ambitious proposals, but unfortunately they have not been sufficiently taken up by the 28 member states - as you have pointed out, commissioner. that is why i am calling for support for the establishment of this committee of inquiry: it is the only way to thoroughly investigate this new scandal in order to define responsibilities and understand the mechanisms in place. i also ask that the scope of the investigation be widened to include the mechanisms that enable money laundering to take place. these mechanisms finance international terrorism; we discussed this in the previous debate. it is therefore time for heads of state and government to understand that citizens must not be the only ones making efforts in this time of crisis. it's not just them that have to tighten their belts. we know there's money, we know where it is, now we just have to have the courage to go and get it.
in this european parliament we have already spoken a great deal about tax fraud, about the special tricks that the big multinationals sometimes use. to combat this fraud, we must implement the oecd proposals. i refer you to the so-called oecd anti-beps plan. we could also speak of an anti-panama plan. i think it is an excellent thing that the european commission is making proposals today. thank you, commissioner hill, for that. the proposal we are discussing today, this country by country reporting, is a good idea. international companies will have to show where they operate, where they make profits, where they employ people, what their employment is. but also where they pay taxes and how much they pay taxes. it is therefore a major step forward and a logical one to put this matter to a european level. because if we did that with 28 member states, we would only get a lot more red tape. we get 28 complaints and we get less transparency. i'm already in for this win win.
"tax freedom day" seems to have come very early in the year for some in recent decades. it's like that after new year's, even for the most creative of creatives, it turns out. so, basically, a tax freedom day loses all meaning and we'd better get it over with. i wasn't in favor of it anyway. i think "celebrate" days like this is a little double. yes, we should be critical of what the government does with our tax dollars, but at the same time, there is also such a thing as civic sense. we should be proud that contributions to the public purse pay for public services which are the core and strength of our european welfare states. in this connection i see in this commission proposal an opportunity for companies: businesses must also be able to demonstrate 'civic sense': the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the government also has a duty: the obligation not to make those companies unnecessarily vulnerable by making them release information that is too sensitive. the proposal seems to be fortunately balanced in this respect and at least relieves smes of unnecessary administrative burdens. president. - ladies and gentlemen, i am neither cynical nor naive. big business can be tax-tamed, but that can only be done if we tackle it on a global scale. (the president cut the speaker off)
there are more conflicts breaking out or flaring up worldwide than are being ended. and that, of course, is a grim, disturbing reality. the union must guarantee the safety of its citizens and its values. i therefore regard this report as an important exercise in reflection, with clear analyses and recommendations. i have some concerns, too. i am in favour of strengthening the european defence agency if the focus is on the core tasks and if there is bottom-up work with the member states. i am concerned, however, about the bureaucratic risks of the voluntarist ideas in the report: a european defence community and a permanent military headquarters for the eu. we already have the eu military committee, the eu military staff and the chiefs of defence meetings. so why create extra layers of bureaucracy? i am not in favour of merging the nato response force with the eu battle groups. the response force is on the ground, the battle groups are just a paper tiger. whether their merger will be a win-win is highly questionable.
blue-card question.– i am going to ask my question in english, manfred. i heard you speaking about the fact that mr erdoğan must respect human rights and all the rest of it, but i really wonder what kind of leverage you and your chancellor have on this guy when you are forced to accept anything from him just for him to keep the refugees, to the point that when a humourist in germany mocks erdoğan, even the chancellor is ill at ease and wants to please erdoğan and does not know exactly how to handle it. this is not a sign of strength. if i were erdoğan i would laugh at what you say: ‘let him speak, let manfred weber speak, anyway i can get from the chancellor whatever i like.’
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, there is a saying that when you play with fire, you have to expect to get burnt. i have to tell you that my impression is that this is exactly what is happening now with the turkey deal. why with the turkey deal? because we tried to outsource our problems to an autocratic leader, mr erdoǧan. what is he doing? well, two days ago, mr erdoǧan instructed the german government to prosecute a tv presenter, jan böhmermann, for a satirical poem. i can tell you that i am not mr böhmermann’s lawyer and what he produced is also not my taste in humour, but in a free society such satirical poems must be possible. that is the price we pay for our freedom, and we pay happily for our freedom. so, to come back to erdoǧan: we have already given him the keys to the gates of europe and now we risk handing over the keys to our newsrooms to him so that he decides and controls our media. i have to tell you that i am not surprised that this is happening. if you put yourself at the mercy of somebody like mr erdoǧan and if you outsource your responsibilities to a third country like turkey, that in my opinion it is only the beginning of what i call turkish bazaar politics. why do i say that? well, mr erdoǧan has already declared in the turkish parliament that he will call off the agreement he has made with you if, within two months, he does not have the visa liberalisation he requested, regardless of whether he keeps his part of the agreement and complies with our conditions for visa liberalisation. so it is clear that we have put ourselves in the hands of erdoǧan and, in fact, of his government. i have more and more the impression and the feeling, mr tusk, that, while putin uses energy as a weapon, erdoǧan uses poor refugees as a political weapon. that is what is happening. and i do not say that in a light way, i have to tell you. first proof of that: in turkey – that was part of the deal, mr juncker, and it is not being complied with by the turks – they need to change their legislation to lift all the territorial restrictions on the geneva convention and to make it possible for a syrian refugee to have asylum in turkey. they are not doing it and they refuse to do it. moreover, and more important, is the fact that there are reports – and nobody is talking about this, we have a debate here – from amnesty international stating that turkey is sending syrian refugees back to syria against international law. yesterday this was confirmed by dutch state television in a programme in which they investigated this and proved that the turkish authorities are doing that. my question to you, mr tusk, is: why are you not examining this? is this true? and if this is true, can we continue with a deal that is against international law and against our obligations? what are you doing? what is your answer to that? are you investigating this? is it true what amnesty international and dutch state television said yesterday? thirdly, let us not fool ourselves. it is true: you say the deal is working. on the greek—turkish border, yes. there are no longer 1 700 a day but 50 a day now. but yesterday the italian coastguard rescued not 50 people, as normal, but 2 154 people. so what is the result of yesterday? we can only take yesterday’s figures. people like to talk about figures here and about the deal. well, they are the figures – from 1 700 to 50, and from 50 to 2 154. is that a deal that is working? in the meantime, we have in fact put our position, our freedom and our values in the hands of whom? of erdoǧan. well, i am saying that instead of having a debate here about a deal that in my opinion is not working, we ourselves have to get our act together in europe. that is the priority now and, in my opinion, that means three things. first of all, the european border and coast guard. do you know what the reality is? the commission, rightly, has asked the member states for a number of people. do you know the figures? four hundred people were asked for as interpreters: 37 were sent to greece. the commission asked for 472 migration officers: 31, mr tusk, have been sent to turkey and to greece. the commission asked for 1 500 security officers. how many have been sent? three hundred and thirty-nine. so in total, more than 2 300 people have been requested by the commission as the start of this european border and coast guard, and 400 of these people, more or less, have, in reality, been put at the disposal of the commission. is that a deal that is working? i have another idea. i think we desperately need this european border and coast guard and to make an agreement so that it can be rolled out. secondly, i think we desperately need a european asylum system and, like mr pittella, i give the support of my group to go forward with the commission’s proposal as fast as possible. and desperately, if you want to fight the smugglers, there is only one way and that is to make legal migration to europe possible too. that is the only way to stop the smugglers – smugglers in turkey or smugglers in north africa. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i like your british sense of humour, but i see it more as a question for mr kamall, who is a specialist in this.
in writing. ‒ as always, i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help the 470 workers made redundant at volvo trucks in sweden and the 177 other workers at suppliers or downstream producers. china dominates the automobile sector and certain factors (demographic change, increasing urbanization, etc.) suggest that competition will intensify in the future. the mobilisation of this fund is important because it helps to control the devastating effects that globalisation can have on employees.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the egf contribution of eur 1 793 710 for the reintegration into the labour market of 647 workers made redundant in sweden, including 470 workers from volvo group truck operation emea and 177 others from four suppliers or downstream producers. i think it is important to intervene because the commercial vehicle industry is no longer dominated by european and north american manufacturers, due to the emergence of asian truck manufacturers. indeed, exports of heavy commercial vehicles, buses and coaches decreased by 11%, while total imports of commercial vehicles into the union increased by 10%. the production of heavy commercial vehicles also decreased in the union in 2014. i therefore welcome the allocation of this amount as it helps to finance various measures such as jobsearch assistance, jobsearch allowance, etc.
in writing. i supported sweden's request for a financial contribution of eur 1 793 710 in commitment and payment appropriations from the european globalisation adjustment fund following redundancies in the motor vehicle, trailer and semi-trailer manufacturing sector in the norrland region. this contribution will help 500 of the 647 workers laid off. 470 workers were made redundant at volvo group truck operations as a result of restrictions at the umeå plant, and 177 were made redundant at four suppliers or downstream producers (il logistics ab, lemia, caverion and isringhausen). the maximum annual budget of the fund shall be eur 150 million for the period 2014-2020. it can help with up to 60% of the cost of projects to help people who have lost their jobs to find work or to set up their own businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to the tune of eur 1 793 710 to help the 647 workers made redundant by volvo and its subcontractors in sweden. the commercial vehicle construction sector faces significant competition due to the emergence of asian truck manufacturers. european producers are seeing their exports decline while imports of this type of vehicle on the european market are only increasing. this has forced some companies, such as volvo, to lay off staff, with a consequent impact on their many subcontractors. it is therefore important to help these workers, in particular to increase their skills and thus help them to return to employment and a stable social situation as quickly as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. i can only regret that the commission was not able to complete its examination of this request within the time limit. it should be recalled that, in the interests of the beneficiaries, the aid should be made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. member states and union institutions participating in the implementation of the egf should make every effort to reduce processing time and simplify procedures in order to ensure the swift and smooth adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is inevitable and goes hand in hand with the opening up of new markets, international competition, economic growth and job creation outstripping job losses in less competitive sectors. the main need for sustainable economic growth is therefore structural reforms. this requires economic adjustment combined with a social policy adapted to the needs of the member states, which, in line with the treaties, are the first and most appropriate authorities. the nva delegation in the european parliament understands the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), but is convinced that a european transfer union cannot be a remedy to tackle unemployment, nor can it replace much-needed structural reform policies. the n-va meps therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as this will help volvo sweden's employees, who lost their jobs as a result of rapid changes caused by globalisation, to reintegrate into the labour market as quickly as possible.
in writing. ‒ the legislation on the conditions for financial contributions from the european globalisation adjustment fund states that an amount equivalent to no more than 0.5% of the maximum annual amount remains available each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. i voted in favour of this call for eur 380 000 because it will enable the commission, in particular through administrative simplification, to make the application of the egf regulation, a mechanism needed to deal with redundancies caused by global competition, more efficient and faster.
in writing. eur 380 000 was needed to cover the technical assistance from the commission, even though the fund's projects are managed and implemented by national or regional authorities. the main purpose of this technical assistance is to finance monitoring, information and knowledge-building activities to simplify requests for assistance and to provide advice to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) of eur 380 000 to finance technical assistance as requested by the european commission. i have already had the opportunity to say on several occasions that the egf is an important tool to help workers who have unfortunately lost their jobs as a result of the partial or total closure of their enterprises. the fund enables these workers to acquire new skills in order to increase their chances of finding a job as quickly as possible. as is often the case, some aspects need to be improved, particularly as regards the time needed to activate the mobilisation of the fund, but this will soon be the subject of a debate in the empl committee. in order to ensure that this budget brings the added value it deserves, it is necessary to provide it with technical assistance, in particular to monitor files, disseminate information, provide administrative and technical support and network national experts. in addition, this technical assistance should allow an evaluation of the use of the fund to be carried out in order to further improve its relevance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. parliament welcomed the measures proposed by the commission for technical assistance and stressed the importance of networking and the exchange of information on the egf and therefore supported the financing of the expert group of egf contact persons and networking seminars on the implementation of the egf. it is now hoped that this exchange of information will also contribute to the development of better and more detailed reports on the success rate of measures supported by the egf in the member states, in particular on the extent and rate of re-employment of beneficiaries; parliament also supports all initiatives to promote greater involvement and consultation of local authorities in the day-to-day management of measures supported by the egf.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is inevitable and goes hand in hand with the opening up of new markets, international competition, economic growth and job creation outstripping job losses in less competitive sectors. the main need for sustainable economic growth is therefore structural reforms. this requires economic adjustment combined with a social policy adapted to the needs of the member states, which, in line with the treaties, are the first and most appropriate authorities. the nva delegation in the european parliament understands the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), but is convinced that a european transfer union cannot be a remedy to tackle unemployment, nor can it replace much-needed structural reform policies. the n-va meps therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is an important tool to ensure that workers who have lost their jobs as a result of rapid changes brought about by globalisation reintegrate into the labour market as quickly and efficiently as possible. that is why i voted for this provision.
in writing. ‒ this correction of the draft budget for the financial year 2016 aims to provide emergency support within the union in the area of migration and home affairs policy and to reinforce the staff of the european counter-terrorism centre within europol without having a net impact on the level of appropriations in the 2016 budget. i voted in favour of this draft budgetary adjustment, firstly because it is a matter of european solidarity to provide financial support to the member states which are suffering from the migration crisis and secondly because it is essential to strengthen the exchange of information between member states in order to prevent further terrorist attacks on the territory of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this amended budget was necessary to strengthen europol's counter-terrorism cell (ectc). the nva has always supported the creation of this unit in order to make the most of europol's expertise in the fight against terrorism and to enable better cooperation between eu member states. the cell was launched in january 2016 and is now also budgeted. the amended budget also aims to allocate a first tranche to the new eu humanitarian instrument, which is paying out €700 million to ngos in greece. the n-va has already stated that it considers it appropriate for the private sector to take over the reception of the public sector there, as this southern european country is clearly failing to comply with this obligation under the common european asylum system (ceas). the report also envisaged a budgetary shift without increasing the total resources. this budget-neutral amendment, which benefits the safety of european citizens and the needs of asylum seekers, is fully supported by the n-va delegation.
in writing. i fully support the european commission's proposal to set up an instrument to provide emergency aid within the union's borders. the main objective is to enable the union to respond quickly and adequately to major crises and, consequently, to help member states cope with the influx of large numbers of refugees. i welcome the spirit of solidarity between the member states which has led to the introduction of this measure. i would point out that this aid will in no way affect emergency humanitarian aid to third countries.
in writing. ‒ the adoption by meps of the first draft amending budget for 2016 will allow €100 million to be released for emergency aid to refugees in the eu and €2 million for the european counter-terrorism centre (ectc). the €100 million is the first tranche of the €700 million pledged by the commission on 2 march in response to the humanitarian emergency caused by the large influx of refugees and migrants into the eu from countries in africa and the near and middle east. the €2 million will enable the ectc to strengthen its staff in the face of the serious terrorist threats. the ectc, set up on 1 january 2016 within europol, is intended to become the main counter-terrorism centre in the eu. this new endowment should enable him to progress in this direction. the budgetary efforts made this afternoon should not, however, blind us to the real causes of these mass migrations and the growth of religious extremism. a strong, coherent european development and foreign policy, working in tandem with the international community, is needed to meet the challenges of the 21st century.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted the report on the eu amending budget no 1/2016 and the first financing under the new instrument to provide emergency aid within the union to relieve countries, such as greece, that are experiencing a massive influx of refugees and migrants. the european parliament has therefore approved the redeployment of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations under heading 3 (security) of the multiannual financial framework for immediate financing needs under this new mechanism for humanitarian aid in the territory of the union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the adoption of this amending budget also makes it possible to increase the staff of the european centre for the fight against terrorism within europol and to provide the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations of eur 2.0 million from a redeployment from the internal security fund.
in writing. - i voted yes. i particularly welcome the proposal to increase the number of staff in the european counter-terrorism centre at europol, given the current security situation in the european union. these increases are in addition to those already agreed in the recent revision of europol's legal framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this amending budget because the current refugee crisis is an unforeseen emergency that makes this draft necessary. i particularly welcome the decision to allocate more staff budget to europol's european counter-terrorism centre. this will only serve the security situation in europe.
in writing. ‒ in my vote, i took account of the report and the vote in the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. i congratulate samo jereb on his appointment as a member of the court of auditors. as vice-president of the court of auditors of the republic of slovenia in 2013, samo jereb did not hesitate to complete his knowledge by various training related to this function, such as that of an auditor, or of a statutory auditor.
in writing. ‒ parliament approved the appointment of the slovenian auditor samo jereb to the european court of auditors by 404 votes to 222 with 70 abstentions, but rejected the polish auditor's candidature, following the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control. it should be noted that toni abela, the maltese candidate, withdrew his candidacy following the committee's unfavourable opinion. the final decision on secondment to luxembourg will be taken by the union's council of ministers. the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a term of six years. the council, after consulting the european parliament, shall take a decision on the basis of the proposals made by each member state.
in writing. ‒ we have received, considered and delivered an opinion on the nomination of this person as a member of the court of auditors. the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. a hearing was then held by the council in march on the function of member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of samo jereb as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ in casting my vote, i took account of the report and the vote in the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. i congratulate mr mihails kozlovs on his appointment as a member of the court of auditors. his experience of more than 15 years in many areas, such as the development of economic policies at european and national level, the union budget, public finances, public administration, institutional relations, etc., is widely recognised.
in writing. ‒ parliament approved the appointment of the latvian auditor, mihalis kozlovs, to the european court of auditors (386 votes in favour, 123 against and 186 abstentions), but rejected the polish auditor's candidature, following the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control. the maltese candidate, toni abela, withdrew his candidacy following the committee's unfavourable opinion. the final decision on secondment to luxembourg will be taken by the union's council of ministers. the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a term of six years. the council, after consulting the european parliament, shall take a decision on the basis of the proposals made by each member state.
in writing. ‒ we have received, considered and delivered an opinion on the nomination of this person as a member of the court of auditors. the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. a hearing was then held by the council in march on the function of member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing mr mihails kozlovs as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ in casting my vote, i took account of the report and the vote in the committee on budgetary control
in writing. i congratulate jan gregor on his appointment as a member of the court of auditors. he is an economist by training and has held several posts in the ministry of finance. his experience as deputy minister in charge of public budgets, state budget, local and municipal budgets, debt management, public treasury, etc., is an unquestionable asset in his new position.
in writing. ‒ parliament approved the appointment of the czech auditor jan gregor to the european court of auditors (382 votes in favour, 256 against and 57 abstentions) this afternoon, but rejected the polish auditor's candidature, following the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control. the maltese candidate, toni abela, withdrew his candidacy following the committee's unfavourable opinion. the final decision on secondment to luxembourg will be taken by the union's council of ministers. the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a term of six years. the council, after consulting the european parliament, shall take a decision on the basis of the proposals made by each member state.
in writing. ‒ we have received, considered and delivered an opinion on the nomination of this person as a member of the court of auditors. the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. a hearing was then held in march by the council as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing mr jan gregor as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ in casting my vote, i took account of the report and the vote in the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. ‒ parliament approved the appointment of the slovak auditor, mr ladislav balko, to the european court of auditors this afternoon (328 votes in favour, 317 against and 52 abstentions) but rejected the polish auditor's candidature, following the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control. the maltese candidate, toni abela, withdrew his candidacy following the committee's unfavourable opinion. the final decision on secondment to luxembourg will be taken by the union's council of ministers. the members of the court of auditors shall be appointed for a term of six years. the council, after consulting the european parliament, shall take a decision on the basis of the proposals made by each member state.
in writing. ‒ we have received, considered and delivered an opinion on the nomination of this person as a member of the court of auditors. the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. a hearing was then held in march by the council as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing ladislav balko as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ in casting my vote, i took account of the report and the vote in the committee on budgetary control
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the maltese candidate, toni abela, had withdrawn his candidature following the committee's unfavourable opinion. it should be noted that the members of the court of auditors are appointed for six years. the council, after consulting the european parliament, shall take a decision on the basis of the proposals made by each member state.
in writing. ‒ we have received, considered and delivered an opinion on the nomination of this person as a member of the court of auditors. the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. a hearing was then held by the council in march on the function of member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of janusz wojciechowski as a member of the court of auditors, given the negative opinion of the competent parliamentary committee.
mr president, i am definitely choosing to see the glass as half full this afternoon. it is a good time to protect the health of europeans: by saying no to the renewal of the authorization of glyphosate for 15 years proposed by the commission, and by voting instead for the resolution i am one of the authors of, our parliament has just shown that it is on the side of the citizens, that it is on the side of innovation and that it is on the side of less intensive agricultural practices. that's the role, that's our role, the role of politicians to make choices, especially when the science doesn't allow for conclusions and when the opinions of the experts who are charged with informing us differ. in conclusion, even if parliament is unfortunately just a figurehead here, our message is clear: we say no to the commission's maximalist option, to this blank cheque for 15 years and to the ban on one co-formulant out of every five hundred. the seven-year authorization voted this afternoon is far too broad in my view, but that is the important signal here, and it is clear that the commission must do its homework again and propose a new text to us, to the member states, who will be responsible for taking the decision.
mr president, what did we vote on? this is an objection that parliament has made to the european commission's proposal to renew the use of this dangerous substance, glyphosate, for 15 years. it was irresponsible, and we were right to object. let us keep the positive aspect of what we have done and the message we have sent today, which is that there is no question of renewing an authorization for a dangerous product for 15 years without further analysis. it also includes a ban on co-formulants, which increase the hazard of the product. but i regret the adoption of amendment no 11 requested by the ppe group, which is aimed at obtaining a renewal for a period of seven years. it's like we're crossing a river and we stop in the middle. it doesn't make sense! it distorts and weakens the message that should have been given today. that is why the belgian socialists ultimately abstained on this resolution, which they obviously consider relevant, while regretting, unfortunately, that the message loses its force because of the authorization granted for seven years.
in writing. ‒ as long as there are serious concerns about the carcinogenic effects of glyphosate, further scientific studies need to be carried out. anything else would be contrary to the precautionary principle in the eu. i therefore supported an amendment to that effect. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it seems that there was a majority of doubt about the correct use of the herbicide, otherwise no restriction of the authorization for professional use would have been required. but when health is endangered, it is in home gardening as well as in agriculture. i therefore consider that parliament's present position is inconsistent. it is also essential that the commission and the member states finance research and innovation in cost-effective solutions in the field of pest control products. this is the only way to achieve a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment in the future.
in writing. ‒ parliament has rightly objected to the commission's intention to renew the authorisation of the dangerous substance glyphosate for 15 years. unfortunately, the epp has tabled an amendment to obtain a seven-year licence. that is why the belgian socialists abstained in the final vote.
in writing. – i have voted against this resolution because it undermines the trust in the european food and safety authority efsa, a key eu agency. efsa was created in 2002 after it had become clear that there was great necessity of such an agency, as member states individually failed to effectively prevent a number of food crises. i strongly believe in the expertise and trustworthiness of this agency and therefore do not agree to the criticism that this resolution brings towards it. the main argument by opponents of glyphosate was its probability of being carcinogenic. after having taken knowledge of the fact that efsa has taken into account hundreds of studies, i have again no other choice than placing my trust in efsa. specifically, they base their studies on the fact that there is great difference in the study results depending on whether the product is used in a concentrated or a diluted form. in addition, glyphosate is of great importance to our agricultural sector and therefore for food security in the eu. in sum, i believe that emotions should not prevail over scientific evidence in such matter, and that it is therefore not the politician’s place to question efsa’s competences when it is clearly doing its job.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the resolution calling for the renewal of the licence of the active substance glyphosate for 7 years. there is no scientific consensus at present on the hot topic in this dossier, namely whether or not glyphosate is carcinogenic. the european food safety authority (efsa) and the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) of the world health organization have reached different conclusions. it is also possible that glyphosate has endocrine disrupting properties. i therefore call for more research to assess in depth the role of the so-called co-formulants or excipients. these excipients are an important explanation for the scientific disagreement. while efsa focused its analysis on the active substance glyphosate (in line with its mandate), iarc also analysed excipients. the starting points of the risk analyses are therefore different. everyone knows that apples are not like pears. the european commission also seems to be aware of this: why else would the commission link the possible renewal of the licence for glyphosate to a ban on tallowamine as a co-formulant? more research and more transparency are needed to remove the many uncertainties in this area in the interests of public health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ given the lingering concerns about the carcinogenicity and endocrine disrupting properties of glyphosate, i strongly disagreed with the renewal of its marketing authorisation for 15 years. i was in favour of a short extension period (2-5 years) of this authorisation, which should allow farmers in particular to have access to alternative solutions. as the first amendment put to the vote provided for a period of 7 years and for professional purposes only, i voted in favour of it for fear that the objection would be ultimately rejected.
the authorisation of the weed killer glyphosate in europe expires at the end of june. the commission then made a proposal to allow glyphosate to be re-authorised after 1 july for a period of 15 years. the possible harmful effects of glyphosate use have been the subject of heated debate between proponents and opponents of the weedkiller for many years. opponents claim that exposure to glyphosate is carcinogenic. proponents rely on studies that show no harmful effects. the commission based its proposal on the findings of efsa, which are based on numerous scientific reports indicating that glyphosate is unlikely to be harmful to health. in a non-binding opinion to the commission, a majority in the european parliament has called for the authorisation period for glyphosate to be limited to 7 years. personally, i am in favour of the commission's original proposal because the proposed deadline provides scope for continuing to innovate in plant protection in a sustainable and economically responsible way.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's proposal to renew the approval for the use of glyphosate (a substance contained in roundup in particular) for 15 years was not acceptable due to concerns related to its use in the composition of agricultural and household products. the european parliament's committee on the environment and public health had taken up the matter and a section of the scientific community had highlighted the likely health risks of the use of widely used products containing glyphosate. today, in the vote in plenary in strasbourg, this objection was not accepted and i regret it: a majority of members supported a renewal agreement for 7 years, whereas i was personally opposed to it. in my view, by granting the commission this 'semi-blanc-seing', the european parliament is sending the wrong signal. it is now up to the commission and then the states to take account of the reservations expressed and i will continue to advocate a reformulation of the proposal which takes into account the potential hazardousness of this substance, while allowing a sustainable transition for farmers and economically and ecologically responsible alternative products.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate. while many have pointed to the potential carcinogenic risks to mammals, and thus to humans, the european food safety authority stated in 2015 that glyphosate is unlikely to pose a carcinogenic hazard to us. the current seven-year extension contains the dissolving condition that if it should still prove that this substance does have carcinogenic effects, this decision can be reversed.
in writing. ‒ the recent attacks on european soil have deeply shocked citizens around the world who believe in a model of society based on freedom and tolerance. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union must provide concrete answers to this security challenge without, however, impeding the exercise of public freedoms. in the face of the macabre ingenuity of terrorist organisations such as daesh, the political authorities must find the means to prevent new 13 november and 22 march incidents while preserving fundamental freedoms.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report, which puts the european union's primary missions back at the heart of the concerns. the preservation and defence of peace, humanist and european values, the promotion of global governance, respect for international law and the stabilisation of the immediate neighbourhood are all part of an ambitious and hopeful european policy. the threats facing all member states and the many challenges they face require solidarity, cohesion and consistency in action by each member state. the threat of terrorism, the migration crisis, financial crime and cybercrime all call for a structured and comprehensive response from the european union, for increased cooperation in defence and security, and for the eu to position itself as a strategic, effective and indispensable international actor and partner.
in writing. ‒ this report, entitled 'the european union in a changing global environment - a more connected, contested and complex world', is the european parliament's contribution to the new overall eu security strategy that the vice-president/high representative was tasked by the european council to develop last summer. this report aims to: defend europe's states, societies and values the union's primary objective is to ensure the security of its citizens and territory, while preserving its values and societal model and defending its fundamental interests; - stabilise europe's wider neighbourhood (the union must assume its responsibilities by closing the security gap in its neighbourhood and in our neighbours' neighbours and respecting its enlargement commitments); - become a more present player in a multipolar world the union should aim to become a 'decision-maker' that sets effective rules for global multilateral governance, which requires enhanced cooperation with regional actors, in particular on global threats, and finally greater interaction with european citizens and national actors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution proposing elements for a new strategy in this area. the european union aims to preserve peace, safeguard its values and promote the well-being of its peoples by guaranteeing the security of its citizens and territory. the union should therefore ensure its internal and external resilience, its ability to anticipate, prevent and respond to foreseeable challenges and threats (by being ready to take swift action in the face of unforeseeable challenges and threats) and its ability to recover from different types of attacks, while preserving its security of energy and raw materials supply and taking into account, in doing so, the effects of climate change, which require urgent action, given the union's leading role in the global fight against climate change and in supporting sustainable development. a new strategy is therefore essential.
in writing. ‒ this report reflects the new global strategy of the european union in the light of today's global challenges. i voted for this report because the union must be able to meet the challenges of the future. strengthening our defence capabilities and the exchange of information between intelligence services is essential to our security.
in writing. ‒ in 2007, the european union strengthened its relations with the countries of central asia (kazakhstan, kyrgyz republic, tajikistan, turkmenistan, uzbekistan) with the aim of strengthening ties and cooperation in the face of common threats and challenges. in 2012, a follow-up report supported the relevance of this strategy between these countries and the european union. i voted in favour of this new implementation because i think it is essential to have diplomatic relations which are stable over time and offer greater peace for the member states. this mutual commitment is also important for security issues, which are now taking a prominent place in meetings between european and asian actors.
in writing. – central asia is becoming increasingly important to the eu. it is therefore that i voted in favour of this resolution. our interests in the region are of both a political and economic nature. the resolution reiterates what the eu envisages in central asia, which is peace, prosperity, democracy and environmental sustainability. positive relations between us will lead to economic and other benefits to both of us. while central asia has important resources to offer, the eu has the technology and know-how to build up the region’s infrastructure and to support it. thus economic integration, trade and sustainable development are key. however, democracy, the rule of law and human rights also remain at the centre of the discussion. especially with regard to gender equality there is still work to be done. but i strongly believe that through economic prosperity and innovation, the first steps will be taken in the modernisation of the region in the direction of gender equality. the resolution also recognises that there are many differences across the region. therefore, i am delighted to see that a list has been included, with specific issues regarding every country in the region, and thereby recognising their individual situation.
in writing. in an increasingly interconnected world, central asia is a region of growing strategic importance for the eu because of its geographical location at the crossroads between europe, asia and the middle east and its significant energy resources. the strengthening of cooperation between the european union and central asia is mutually beneficial in achieving fundamental objectives such as peace in afghanistan, an effective fight against terrorism and the development of dynamic trade and economic relations between our two regions. for most central asian states, relations with the union are defined by partnership and cooperation agreements. given the political and economic heterogeneity of the central asian countries and the low level of interregional cooperation, europe must favour a targeted approach, based on the needs and interests of the individual countries, while giving priority to european values. the progress of the central asian countries towards democracy is positive, although much remains to be done in the areas of the rule of law, good governance, the fight against violence against women, etc.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i voted on on the implementation and revision of the eu strategy for central asia, underlines the strong strategic, economic and political interest that the union sees in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the countries of central asia. the text adopted emphasises the importance of regional cooperation in achieving long-term sustainable results. it also welcomed the reinstatement of the post of eu special representative for central asia, whose main role is to ensure that the coherence of the union's external action in the region is respected. last but not least, great importance is attached to the promotion and strengthening of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance. despite some positive developments in the countries of the region, the situation regarding respect for democratic standards and human rights remains worrying in more than one way.
in writing. ‒ i reiterate the need to increase the union's political influence in the central asian region; urges the european union and its member states to speak with one voice and to refrain from bilateral negotiations which often place less importance on respect for human rights, in order to promote coherence and coordination of foreign policy in the region and to jointly establish joint aid and project programming with the member states in order to exploit the full potential and create synergies. i urge the council, the eeas and the commission to adopt a concrete action plan, with measurable benchmarks, to allow a proper assessment of progress in the future; i welcome the increased participation and ownership of the member states in the implementation of the strategy.
in writing. ‒ the european union has strong strategic, political and economic interests throughout central asia and it is important that we promote ties with that part of the world. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ on 1 february 2016, the world health organisation declared the zika virus outbreak to be a public health emergency of global concern. cases have been reported sporadically in africa, the americas, asia, the pacific, and in european regions such as martinique, french guiana, guadeloupe, and saint martin. i voted in favour of this report because it takes account of two action plans to combat this devastating virus: on the one hand, action to raise awareness and promote appropriate behaviour and, on the other hand, further medical research. it is essential that the commission prevents the spread of zika in the european union and helps the countries already affected
in writing. – the reason i voted in favour of this resolution is obvious. as both policy makers and citizens have probably realised in recent months there has been an outbreak of the zika virus in latin-america, posing a potential threat to other regions of the world. the resolution reminds us that the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) has stated that around 80% of the infections remain asymptomatic. in addition, it calls for specific action, for example, for the set-up of improved communication plans and increased research on preventive measures. in addition, i strongly welcome the trust that is put in the ecdc and its efforts to continuously monitor the situation and the commission decision to increase the funding available to spend an additional eur 10 million on researching the virus. in the end, the resolution shows us the importance of continuous research and innovation. in this case, it will save lives.
in writing. the rapid spread of the zika virus, its modes of transmission and its serious consequences for public health, especially for women and children, make it a serious threat. while the who believes that there is a plausible link between the contamination of pregnant women and the increase in cases of microcephaly in children and that a vaccine is not yet available, i strongly encourage the implementation of preventive measures that will preserve the health, well-being and comfort of these two most vulnerable groups. in this context, i am enthusiastically in favour of better information for women on reproductive health, safe access to abortion and the use of condoms. i would also like to draw attention to the essential symbolic dimension of these measures. through these, we are sending a positive message by advocating for women's rights to their bodies while promoting and working to improve health in countries affected by the virus. the same way we're educating our populations about the risks of pandemics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for the european union to have an action plan on the zika virus. the zika virus is transmitted by mosquito bites (of the aedes aegypti type) and is suspected of causing malformations in the foetus of infected pregnant women and causing guillain-barré syndrome. it was declared a "public health emergency of global concern" by the world health organization (who) on 1 february 2016. the resolution calls for more coordination in the eu in the face of this virus. it recommends, for example, that the european centre for disease prevention and control establish an expert committee on tropical communicable diseases to effectively coordinate and supervise all necessary measures in the eu. it also called on the commission to present an action plan 'with sufficient targets for the free distribution of mechanical barriers, such as nets to protect against mosquito bites and condoms to prevent sexual transmission'.
in writing. ‒ zika virus is mainly transmitted to humans through the bite of an infected mosquito of the genus aedes, mainly the species aedes aegypti in tropical regions, which also transmits dengue, chikungunya and yellow fever. the european centre for disease prevention and control has assessed that in the absence of treatment or vaccine, and because the mosquitoes that transmit the zika virus bite both indoors and outdoors, mostly during the day, prevention currently relies on personal protection measures, such as wearing long-sleeved t-shirts and permethrin-treated trousers, sleeping and resting in rooms with mosquito nets or air-conditioning, or using a mosquito net.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the zika virus is spreading rapidly in latin america. that is why i supported this report calling on the european union to take up the fight against this virus. the european union must support research into and development of a treatment and a vaccine.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this joint resolution for at least three reasons. first, it recalls at the outset that it is essential to guarantee full respect for the common european values set out in article 2 as well as the rule of law, democratic principles and human rights. too many member states seem to forget this! secondly, it supports the commission's decision to launch a structured dialogue on poland under the rule of law framework, which should clarify whether there is a systemic threat to democratic values and the rule of law in poland. thirdly, it said it expected the commission to monitor the situation in all member states in the same way as regards respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, thus avoiding double standards and reporting to parliament.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the resolution on poland for the following reasons. while we must always adhere to the principle of subsidiarity, it is also the eu’s responsibility to uphold those values enshrined in article 2 of the teu. as this resolution states, these values are effectively under threat in poland. it rightly mentions that the paralysis of poland’s constitutional tribunal is a danger to many of these values and to poland’s constitutional democracy. in addition, not safeguarding these principles would be a violation of the charter of fundamental rights and the echr. in sum, i can only support a resolution that calls on the government of poland to respect, publish and fully implement the constitutional tribunal’s decisions, thereby respecting poland’s constitutional framework, and restoring the rule of law.
in writing. with the venice commission of the council of europe having just delivered its conclusions and the dialogue between the european commission and the polish authorities continuing, it was crucial for the european parliament to denounce the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal and the threats it poses to the rule of law in poland. the rule of law and the balance of power are the basis of any democratic society and principles to which all the member states of the european union have subscribed. the union's response to the constitutional crisis we are witnessing in poland today must be tailored to the seriousness of its potential impact on our european values. as regards the amendments in plenary relating to the draft abortion law, i and my group have chosen to abstain in order to keep the text focused on the political and constitutional crisis. i would like to add my voice to that of all those who are most concerned about this bill which would ban abortion altogether. such a retreat in women's rights has no place in europe and parliament will therefore have to look into this matter.
in writing. ‒ the attitude and decisions of the polish government are not only undermining relations between poland and the european union, they are shaking the rule of law at its very foundation, which is democratic values. the dialogue with this member state must be continued in order to bring it back to reason. i am concerned, however, that the ruling political party in warsaw, pis, is ignoring the commission's hand in refusing to review the reform of the functioning of the constitutional tribunal and, worse, putting pressure on the judges who rightly consider it unconstitutional. as mr timmermans has said, we cannot allow 'two parallel legal systems' within the union. it has been a month since the venice commission of the council of europe called into question the measures decided by the government in power. in the absence of rapid and significant progress, the rule of law mechanism will have to apply to sanctions against warsaw.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it contains a strong message from the european parliament to the current polish government. the resolution urges the polish government to publish the judgment of the constitutional tribunal and to comply with the venice commission's recommendations on the reform of the functioning of the polish constitutional court.
today, we finally take a step forward. the 1995 data protection directive, after more than 20 years, no longer corresponded to the needs and realities of the present day. it is therefore good that we have agreed today on a new instrument adapted to the challenges of the present time. this harmonization is a step forward for consumers and businesses alike. consumers will know their rights and enjoy adequate legal protection and redress throughout the eu. companies are given clarity on what they can and cannot do. they can also carry out cross-border activities more easily. the right to privacy and the internal market are thus a complementary force. one small note, though: the key to the success of this regulation is clearly in its implementation, which must be done in an appropriate manner, especially for smes.
i think that there are very few people in the chamber to debate matters on which so much ink has already been spilled. i can tell you that we, as liberals and defenders of the freedom and privacy of citizens, are actually quite happy with this regulation and this directive and that they are being adapted to the present situation. moreover, this is absolutely necessary if we are to invest in our entrepreneurs, in our industry and in our internal market. moreover, it is absolutely necessary if we are to fight terrorism. this will make it easier for our police departments to share that data. for us liberals, therefore, the agendering of pnr in conjunction with these files was very important. i hope that a few more people will come to the plenary before the debate on the pnr.
we all know that fighters from syria or iraq are returning to europe with plans to carry out deadly attacks. the pnr system is crucial in the fight against terrorism because it helps us to detect such individuals. the pnr system maps behavioural patterns and thus provides our own security services with a wealth of information. the member states have already done their homework. but the european parliament was unnecessarily delayed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. we now need short-term solutions, such as the exchange of personal data from passenger flights. some parties considered that linking pnr to the data protection package was essential. however, the pnr file contains sufficient guarantees for data protection. the vote on the pnr has therefore been unnecessarily delayed for five years. i hope that all the groups will show common sense tomorrow and prefer security to political games. we don't have to give up our privacy for that. moreover, the data protection package is almost complete. there is no reason to delay or vote against this case any longer.
mr president, the nrp we are discussing today is neither a magic potion against terrorism, as some would have us believe, nor a freedom-destroying monster, as others denounce it. the pnr is only one instrument, or rather one of the instruments needed to help our intelligence and security services collect and process information useful in the fight against terrorists and major criminals. of course -- and we know this -- this instrument is not perfect. i am sorry to say that this is not a true european pnr, but 28 national pnrs, which have yet to be linked. i regret that the exchange of information between them is not compulsory and that the transposition period is too long. but i'd rather have a tool, even if it's imperfect, if it can save lives, than no tool at all. and i don't see why we wouldn't want to collect for ourselves the information that we've been passing on, even today, for years, in the united states, canada and australia. yes, i will vote in favour of the nrp and reject the amendments, indeed all the amendments, which could jeopardise its entry into force.
i am actually glad that we can finally vote on the pnr tomorrow, although i have to say that i do feel that the mountain has given birth to an elephant. yes, it is good that passenger data is being exchanged, but i do regret a little that there will be 28 databases, that the countries themselves can decide whether to share the data voluntarily and that this will not be mandatory. but it is so. rome wasn't built in a day, either! we shall therefore vote tomorrow with conviction on the pnr and data protection files. but i 've heard it here many times today: if we think that pnr will be the panacea against terrorism, then we will have to endure a lot of attacks. we must, ladies and gentlemen of the council and commission, commit ourselves to what we heard in the debate yesterday: the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism.
in writing. i voted in favour of the pnr directive because it is an additional tool to make the european union safer in the current context. but unfortunately this text alone will not be enough to prevent atrocities on european soil. the pnr will only be effective if member states exchange the crucial information that will emerge from national pnrs. this is a major challenge, for example, given the reluctance of states to feed europol's databases on terrorism and 'returns'. the 28 must step up their efforts to make information exchange more effective in the detection of suspected terrorists. we will therefore remain extremely vigilant in the use and efficiency of this famous pnr, but also in the exchange of information, because this is one of the keys to our security. moreover, as regards the establishment of a system which will collect a large amount of personal data, it is welcome that this vote should take place at the same time as the vote on the texts on the protection of personal data in order to guarantee respect for fundamental freedoms. the balance must be maintained at all times between the security of citizens and the preservation of their fundamental rights.
on behalf of the ecr group, i would like to thank mrs piri for this report, which once again shows how harmful erdogan's authoritarian attitude is for turkey and the european union. i have been expressing my concern in this parliament for some time about the treatment of journalists, the disregard for freedom of expression, the human rights situation. and we see the situation only getting worse! in the most recent reporters without borders press freedom index, turkey is ranked 148 out of 180 countries. the peace process with the kurds has been abandoned and has degenerated into blind state terror. madam minister, i hear you say that you have expressed your concern and that you have asked for the resumption of the peace negotiations. you ask, but what do you get? what did you get? - what? southeast turkey is a war zone. turkey is playing an ambiguous role in the fight against isis. the government made insufficient efforts to prevent foreign fighters, money or equipment from reaching syria. meanwhile, the turks are poisoning kurdish fighters all the more eagerly.
the german vaudeville about the tasteful or not satirist on the one hand, the turkish prime minister on the other, and the goat question show that there on the bosphorus they want to extend the turkish rule of law to those places in europe where enough turks live to put pressure on the european leaders. the fact that angela merkel is playing this game instead of protecting free speech - "je suis charlie", not true, ladies and gentlemen - is a perfect illustration of why we as citizens of europe, with european leaders like you, have been subjected to brutal forms of blackmail and deception on issues such as illegal immigration and membership. we must have the courage to protect our borders instead of making ourselves dependent on someone like erdogan.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who are still here! i am very grateful to you for your passionate discussion and regret that so late at night something as essential as the small and mediumsized enterprises in europe is being discussed, because they are indeed the backbone of the european economy. i can only remind you: we have about 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe and about as many unemployed, and if only each of these enterprises would take on an unemployed person, then the problem of unemployment would be eliminated. if we were to leave this to the 500 largest european companies, each of them would have to create 50,000 jobs, which is probably not even theoretically possible. this shows the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises, and i can therefore assure you that the commission will continue to devote considerable attention to the development and strengthening of small and mediumsized enterprises in europe. but i can also assure you that our approach is to create the conditions, not to be a dirigiste, but to ensure that the european economy can develop, and it can only do so if the appropriate framework is in place. but the entrepreneurial initiative must be guaranteed. only then can we have a successful economy which ultimately safeguards and creates jobs.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr meszerics, for this very comprehensive report, which confirms once again that poverty is a complex phenomenon with several causes, such as the increasing household costs in europe. i share your concerns about the rise in the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the european union. between 2008 and 2013 the prolonged crisis exacerbated the existing social challenges: poverty, exclusion and inequality. as a result, instead of progressing, we have drifted further away from the europe 2020 target for reducing poverty. however, there are now some signs of stabilisation, and with concerted efforts we can still make real progress. i take note of your recommendation to invest fully in the fight against poverty and social exclusion – social inclusion is, of course, what we want. the commission has put social fairness at the core of our agenda, and work has already started to deliver on this commitment. i am convinced that it is only by ensuring that social considerations are better integrated in all of the european policy areas that we can truly achieve the social europe that we want. i am glad that your report supports our commitment to ensuring a social triple a for the union. the european pillar of social rights lies at the core of our efforts to achieve that social triple a. the commission launched a wide-ranging consultation on 8 march. we are counting on you and on parliament to contribute to this discussion on the social values and rights that should underpin the social model in the 21st century. the draft european pillar of social rights puts a strong focus on fighting poverty and social exclusion. it sets out principles to ensure access to adequate social protection, including minimum income, social housing and activating and enabling benefits and services. it emphasises the work-life balance and family-friendly policies such as childcare and long—term care. greater prominence is also being given to social considerations in and during the whole european semester process. we acknowledge the rapporteur’s recommendation to carry out impact assessments of national minimum income schemes and we would like to stress that over the years the commission has provided policy guidance to the member states. i would like to mention here the 2008 recommendation on active inclusion, the 2013 social investment package and the various country—specific recommendations addressed to several member states within the european semester process. furthermore, the commission is providing support to greece to help it phase in a guaranteed minimum income scheme. in 2015 the commission finalised a pilot project aimed at developing a methodology for comparable reference budgets across the member states. a second phase of this project will be launched later this year. furthermore, the commission has been funding the development of the european minimum income network. i am glad that the report highlights the importance of skills. i would like to stress that one of the most profound challenges we are facing, and one of our key goals, is to make sure that people in europe have skills for jobs – skills for jobs which will improve their life chances. this will be at the core of the proposal that i will be presenting on a new skills agenda for europe. i also take note of your call to hold a summit on poverty reduction. over the last 15 years, the commission has been helping to organise the european meetings of people experiencing poverty. these annual gatherings aim to step up the participation of people experiencing poverty in policy—making processes at local, national and eu level. i can confirm that they facilitate exchanges and mutual learning, stimulate joint projects and aim to assess different approaches to combating poverty in the light of experience on the ground. they feed directly into the annual convention for inclusive growth to ensure that the voices of people experiencing poverty are heard. they have also been tackling homelessness, which you rightly mention in your report as an extreme form of social exclusion. we are currently finalising an eu—wide study on housing evictions. another study on cost—efficient housing policies will be ready by june this year. we have launched a joint project with the oecd to build a housing database entry and we are working together with the mutual information system on social protection (missoc) and eurostat to further improve housing data. a social experimentation peer review of housing first was hosted in march this year by belgium. finally, we take note of your recommendation to submit a communication on energy poverty. as announced in the communication setting out a new deal for energy consumers, the commission is exploring how to improve european union-wide data collection and monitoring of energy poverty. furthermore, with the review of the energy efficiency directive and the energy performance of buildings directive, the commission intends to focus on customer protection, following up the analysis of the member states’ implementation of their national action plans for the protection of vulnerable energy consumers. in conclusion, i would like to stress once more that it is the commission’s firm intention to steer the union more firmly towards social fairness. this means that no one should be left behind. this is a social, political and economic imperative. i therefore express our strong commitment to using all means at the union’s disposal to fight poverty and social exclusion. i am very grateful that this report is stimulating the debate and helping us to stay on the right path.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, i would first like to thank the rapporteur for his work and for his constant search for consensus. the fight against poverty in all its forms requires that we overcome partisan divisions. it must be a priority for ethical and humanitarian reasons, but also because poverty is a real economic disaster. the main tools in this struggle are the development of employment and the guarantee of an income that allows a decent living. the objectives of europe 2020 are far from being achieved. if the european union is to achieve its triple a social objective, it must reverse this trend. we need to be aware that poor households are particularly affected by different types of costs. this is the case for energy and housing, but also for food, water, health care and public services. we need coherent policies that integrate all the drivers of poverty. families that live in poverty don't need speeches. they need concrete and practical action. i hope that this own-initiative report will be understood by the commission and the member states as a call to action. i will conclude, if i may, by quoting the late father wresinski, founder of atd fourth world. it asks us to ask ourselves: is what we are doing, what we are saying, what we are proposing helping to bring about a europe in which the poor will finally be free, is it helping to bring about a europe of human rights? we must, like him, see poverty as a violation of human rights.
mr president, combating poverty means first and foremost ensuring that europeans do not fall into poverty. i therefore think it is important to talk about policies for equality in the fight against poverty and, more particularly, about policies for the redistribution of wealth. we have worked here in this parliament on the question of fairer taxation, the fight against tax evasion, the fight against tax avoidance, which would make it possible to have more robust state budgets. stronger government budgets, which allow for social security policies, are the best bulwark against poverty. when you have a social security that guarantees a quality pension, that guarantees quality health care, that guarantees quality education, we have a guarantee that people don't fall into poverty. unfortunately, austerity policies have chosen the lens of reduced spending. i think we need to learn from our mistakes and move towards policies which are policies of revenue improvement and therefore fairer taxation.
author. with its wealth of raw materials, nigeria could be one of africa's economic engines. we have heard here in this hemisphere the ambitions of president buhari when he spoke here in february. unfortunately, the reality is different. there is no prosperity, but poverty, pollution, corruption, conflict and violence, the terror of boko haram, widespread human rights violations. the various religious groups - christians and muslims - and the ethnic minorities are the victims. i am therefore very grateful to all the colleagues who have contributed to this excellent joint resolution. the nigerian constitution guarantees freedom of thought and religion. it is the duty of the government to respect these rights and to protect its citizens. i therefore call on the president to step up the search for the abducted chibok schoolgirls. it is two years ago today that boko haram terrorists brutally tore them from their families. these children belong with their parents, in the school benches, not on the battlefield of boko haram!
well, it's about time, thank you. madam president, i'll make a commitment to give you glasses if you ever need them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i still think that this house should be a place for listening. i have therefore listened carefully to mr cofferati's arguments. i think it is a very wrong signal from this house to adopt, ten days after the panama papers were revealed, a text which will make the task of whistleblowers and newspapers more difficult, simply because it will put the burden of proof on whistleblowers and not on companies. i therefore think that it is politically completely unwise to adopt this text today.
madam president, it is shameful to ask for the vote to be postponed! we've only been voting for an hour. what spectacle are you giving the public here by asking for a postponement of the vote, when we have only been voting for an hour? let's go all the way!
in writing. ‒ i have of course approved this regulation which will give citizens more power over the use and processing of their personal data. the new rules include provisions on the right to be forgotten, the clear and explicit consent of the data subject to the use of his or her personal data, the right to be informed in the event of data breaches, a stricter implementation of fines of up to 4% of a company's worldwide turnover, and the guarantee that privacy policies are explained in clear and understandable language.
in writing. – personal data is becoming increasingly important and so is its processing. as a legislator, i can only approve of adopting a regulation that increases the protection of our citizens in this regard, while at the same time ensuring the free movement of data. it will facilitate the well-functioning of the digital single market and ensure the protection of the eu citizen’s personal data. to name only a few of these positive consequences; this regulation will give increased legal certainty to businesses across the eu, while giving the consumer the right of being informed when his/her information was to be hacked. in addition, there will be a smoother, easier exchange of information between both member states and these businesses. i put my trust in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), which has negotiated this deal thoroughly with the council, resulting in an almost full consensus.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement reached between parliament and the council on a new data protection regulation, better adapted to the digital age and replacing the current directive, which dates from 1995. the provisions of the regulation create a high and uniform level of data protection across the union, thereby providing greater clarity and certainty for businesses. they also give citizens greater control over their own private information and allow them to decide for themselves what personal information they wish to share. these new rules include provisions on the right to be forgotten, the data subject's clear and explicit consent to the use of their personal data, the right to transfer their data to another service provider, the right to be informed in the event of data breaches, the guarantee that privacy policies are explained in clear and understandable language, and a stricter framework to discourage breaches of the rules with fines of up to 4% of a company's total global turnover.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by parliament of the general data protection regulation. the new regulation, which updates legislation dating back to 1995, has the merit of adapting the protection of personal data to the new realities of the digital age and its consequences for the personal data of natural persons. these new rules strengthen both the rights of the persons whose personal data are processed and the obligations of those who process them. the legal certainty and the penalties for infringements have improved considerably, and i welcome this.
in writing. ‒ i have of course voted in favour of the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing directive 95/46/ec. it was high time for an update.
‒ the new european rules on the protection of personal data are a combination of the different legal methods that previously existed in the member states into a single common european code. it will give european citizens back control over their own personal data.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this directive, which will set minimum standards for data processing for police purposes in each member state for the first time. this should make it possible to increase significantly the exchange of personal data between law enforcement authorities in the member states and thus to work more effectively in the prevention of terrorist acts, while respecting fundamental rights.
in writing. – a coherent data protection framework also plays an important role in the prevention of crime. having common standards as to how to share this information will only facilitate this. in essence, clear, cohesive, uniform and transparent legislation was needed in order to create a pleasant and efficient business environment. at the same time, we have now set up a framework within which our government agencies can operate, using data, in order to prevent crime. this precarious balance is the result of long negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive on the transfer of data for police and judicial purposes, which for the first time sets minimum standards for the processing of such data within each member state. the new rules aim to protect individuals by providing clear rights and limits on the transfer of data for the purposes of the prevention and detection of criminal offences, the investigation and prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of criminal penalties. they also include safeguards and preventive measures against threats to public security, while facilitating easier and more effective cooperation between law enforcement authorities. the new directive will apply to both cross-border and strictly national processing of such data and leaves member states the possibility to provide for stricter safeguards than those set out in the directive. it also provides for the right of data subjects to obtain compensation if they suffer damage as a result of processing which does not comply with the rules.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the directive on data protection for judicial and police purposes. the legislation will, for the first time, protect all data in the context of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. this is a further step in the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens. the establishment of common rules on data protection will also facilitate the exchange of information between member states. the lack of data protection will no longer be an excuse for refusing or limiting the exchange of data in the judicial and police context. this is a priority in order to combat organised crime and terrorism more effectively.
in writing. ‒ in this very important matter, i have decided to vote in favour of the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention and detection of criminal offences, the investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing council framework decision 2008/977/jha.
in writing. ‒ in the new digital age, it is our moral duty as liberals to protect the rights and freedoms of european citizens. to do this as effectively as possible, we need to put clear rights and restrictions on the transfer of personal data for the purposes of the prevention, detection or prosecution of criminal offences into law.
in writing. ‒ following terrorist attacks, calls for better exchange of relevant information between the security authorities of eu member states have been repeatedly raised, but no concrete action has been taken. the present report on passenger data exchange is the first step towards a more effective fight against terrorism in the eu, after months of debate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. the increasing number of attacks makes it clear that individual states cannot alone combat terrorism. closer cooperation at european level and systematic exchange of information between european security authorities are needed to combat the cross-border phenomenon of terrorism. this exchange can be facilitated by a centralised eu passenger name record system, for example to control the movements of dangerous persons more efficiently. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the pnr directive because it is an additional tool to make the european union safer in the current context. but unfortunately this text alone will not be enough to prevent atrocities on european soil. the pnr will only be effective if member states exchange the crucial information that will emerge from national pnrs. this is a major challenge, for example, given the reluctance of states to feed europol's databases on terrorism and returning foreign fighters. the 28 must step up their efforts to make information exchange more effective in the detection of suspected terrorists. we will therefore remain extremely vigilant in the use and efficiency of this famous pnr, but also in the exchange of information, as this is one of the keys to our security. moreover, as regards the establishment of a system which will collect a large amount of personal data, it is welcome that this vote should take place at the same time as the vote on the texts on the protection of personal data in order to guarantee respect for fundamental freedoms. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european
in writing. – i endorse the initiative for a directive on the retention and sharing of personal name record (pnr) data. the recent terrorist attacks and the inability of individual member states to prevent these. terrorists and criminal networks are working across borders and our security forces need to adapt to this. however, they can only do so if the legislator offers them the appropriate legal framework to do this. therefore, i welcome an eu-wide decision to retain passenger data with regard to civil aviation. i do believe that our work is not done here, and that a next step will be a centralised eu database, so that we finally have an actual eu-wide solution. for the time being, this directive is a step in the good direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the pnr directive and rejected all the amendments tabled in plenary because adopting just one of them would have brought the whole agreement to naught. the pnr does not deserve a religious war. in reality, the pnr is only one of the tools needed to help our intelligence and security services collect and process information useful in the fight against terrorism and major criminals. of course, as i said, this instrument is not perfect. i am sorry to say that this is not a european pnr, but 28 national pnrs, which have yet to be interconnected. i regret that the exchange of information between these 28 nrp is not mandatory and that the transposition period is too long, but i prefer an instrument even if imperfect if it can save lives than no instrument at all.
in writing. it was a long battle but worth it. the european pnr will not solve everything in the fight against terrorism, but it will definitely help. by giving airlines access to passenger information, our authorities will not only be able to better monitor members of terrorist groups, but more importantly, they will be able to identify members of these groups unknown to our services. our only objective is to prevent further attacks. the pnr is a necessary tool to help our intelligence and security services collect and process information useful in the fight against terrorism and major criminals. this is not, and we regret it, a european pnr, but 28 national pnrs whose interconnection has yet to be organised. but we do not see why we should refuse to collect for ourselves the information which we have been transmitting for years and still do in the united states, canada and australia.
in writing. ‒ i am one of the 461 meps who voted in favour of the european pnr on the collection, exchange and analysis of air passenger data. the time had come for this important tool to be adopted in the fight against terrorists and traffickers. it is worth recalling that the european parliament had committed itself to finalising the agreement by 2015. it is respect for the word given and the concern not to jeopardize this council/ep agreement that led me to vote against amendment no 54. citizens expect a clear and firm response against terrorism. the pnr is a necessary tool to help our intelligence and security services collect and process information useful in the fight against terrorism and major criminals. in fact, such a system of access to information provided by passengers to airlines has existed for years between the european union and the united states, canada and australia. the commission will also be able to take the pnr further and extend it to 'intra-eu flights' such as collecting and processing pnr data from travel agencies and tour operators. this is a responsible choice which must be made in the member states, and in belgium in particular!
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the passenger name record (pnr). terrorism is complex. it has no single cause, and therefore does not call for a single answer. the fight against terrorism requires the implementation of a range of measures, of which the pnr is one. this system of european information collection is not an end in itself, but it is wrong to think that it infringes individual freedoms in the name of so-called security. it is an additional and indispensable tool for the anticipation of terrorist acts. for me, the key words are anticipation and prevention, which require strengthening the intelligence resources and the capacity to process and exchange information. we must go further by strengthening europol, but also by laying the foundations for a genuine european fbi. finally, i believe it is also important to work on the dialogue between philosophies, religions, education and culture. no wonder the totalitarians of every stripe begin by burning books.
in writing. ‒ after the brussels attacks, it became clear that intelligence services failed because they did not exchange information. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the storage of all flight data in europe for years is a very expensive sham solution in the fight against crime and terrorism. we would much rather put the millions for such a pnr system into something that actually does something, such as better european cooperation between police and judicial services. despite the fact that the european parliament's civil liberties committee referred the proposal to store all data of european air passengers to the trash can as early as 2013, the proposal resurfaced after the paris attacks. and this is despite the fact that the effectiveness of the system cannot be demonstrated and it is a major invasion of the privacy of all europeans. the 28 separate national systems would cost an estimated eur 500 million. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the data, and the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the data. and that is precisely what is lacking in the fight against terrorism, as has been demonstrated time and again. so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ first, the 28 member states have been far too timid in exchanging data. the pnr will therefore only be effective if member states exchange the crucial information that will emerge from national pnrs. this is a major challenge, for example, given the reluctance of states to feed europol's databases on terrorism and returning foreign fighters to their countries of origin. finally, while pnr is proving to be of some use to the airline industry, it is still necessary for terrorists to use it, which was not generally the case in the recent tragic events. for these reasons, the 28 must step up their efforts to make pnr and information exchange more effective in the detection of suspected terrorists. moreover, as regards the establishment of a system which will collect a large amount of personal data, it is welcome that this vote should take place at the same time as the vote on the texts on the protection of personal data in order to guarantee respect for fundamental freedoms. the balance must be maintained at all times between the security of citizens and the preservation of their fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ it is good that passenger data is exchanged and that is why i voted in favour of this proposal, but it is regrettable that it will be done with 28 databases instead of one european database and that data exchange is not compulsory. the pnr is therefore not a panacea in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ this directive deals with the protection of confidential know-how and business information against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. in short, the act deals with the fight against economic espionage. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-wide rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data, the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. however, this should not restrict the right to freedom of expression and information, in particular as regards investigative journalism and whistleblowing activities. however, since the text in question does not sufficiently protect these fundamental rights, i cannot entirely agree with it. i also believe that the issue of disclosure of trade secrets should be discussed in the light of a european whistleblowing act, which is not the case here. that is why i abstained from voting.
in writing. ‒ the belgian ps members abstained from the vote. on the one hand, we find this text, as amended by the s&d group, positive. it combines the protection of business secrets that businesses, and in particular smes, really need in order to contribute to economic activity and job creation and, in this context, to the protection of workers, journalists and whistleblowers. whistleblowers and journalists are fully protected by article 5 while the burden of proof is obviously on the applicant. the bashing he has been subjected to is therefore incomprehensible to anyone who reads it carefully and shares the issues mentioned above! yet we did not approve it. we believe that, especially after the disclosure of the leaks, it is necessary to protect whistleblowers across the board. if necessary, the commission of inquiry we have obtained as a result of the panama papers revelations can only demonstrate the value of protecting whistleblowers. that is why we abstained on a text which we thought was useful but which should have been accompanied by a second initiative aimed specifically at protecting whistleblowers.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this directive because i want to protect businesses and therefore employment in the eu. businesses are the backbone of our economy and therefore deserve the required protection. in order to protect them, we need to protect their know-how, which they have invested in so heavily to acquire. there seems to be much confusion with regard to what is actually protected. when referring to trade secrets, the legislator refers to information for which no obligation to disclose exists. in addition, it criminalises theft of our businesses’ know-how. it also provides a framework for measures, procedures and remedies if the latter regrettably were to happen. besides the clear benefits of this directive, there were some concerns that were adequately addressed. one of these was the guarantee of employee mobility and ensuring the legitimate right to information. finally, the position of smes has been taken into account with regard to their capacity to have access to justice.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft directive on trade secrets because i consider that, after a very long process, the text on which the council and parliament have finally reached agreement is both balanced and reasonable: it ensures the protection of business secrets; it protects innovation and benefits smes and start-ups, which often lack the financial means to protect themselves. finally, it guarantees respect for freedom of expression and freedom of information. several safeguards to ensure the protection of journalistic investigation have been introduced in the directive so that it is not perceived as a trojan horse against future scandals such as luxleaks and other panama papers. finally, the specific situation of whistleblowers is explicitly mentioned in the text. this is a first step which opens up a future debate on this specific issue.
in writing. our smes, our start-ups, which suffer from a lack of human and financial resources to protect their intellectual property, must be able to protect themselves and defend their rights in court against economic and/or industrial espionage. they must be able to obtain redress in the event of misuse of their business secrets, acts of corruption, breach of trust, theft, etc. there are many cases where companies from third countries illegally copy a european product. this is hurting our businesses, our economy and our jobs in a globalised world. if europe is to become a world leader in research and innovation, it needs an environment conducive to innovation. our first objective in voting for this directive was to create the necessary conditions to ensure the protection of trade secrets and the compensation of companies. it was essential to establish a sufficient and comparable level of redress across the internal market in the event of unlawful use of a trade secret. clear, organised and uniform protection of trade secrets against their unlawful appropriation encourages the exchange and transfer of commercial information and know-how within the union, promotes the cross-border economy and discourages unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention and detection of criminal offences, the investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the execution of criminal penalties, and on the free movement of such data, and repealing council framework decision 2008/977/jha.
in writing. ‒ i am against this european law which should better protect trade secrets, because it makes it harder for whistleblowers to report wrongdoing within companies. if this bill passes, it will make it even easier for corporations to cover up wrongdoing. whereas, lately, whistleblowers have been essential to exposing fraudulent car manufacturers and tax-avoiding multinationals! they deserve protection rather than punishment. the green group in the european parliament is calling for a postponement of the vote. we do not want the european parliament to vote on the protection of trade secrets before a bill for the extended protection of whistleblowers in the european union is on the table.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation supported this report. it aims to prevent the unlawful disclosure of trade secrets. such secrets are part of the capital of a company and therefore deserve protection. nevertheless, the n-va remains committed to ensuring that journalists and whistleblowers can still expose societal problems without fear of legal prosecution. a balance was struck and achieved! the very first article states that the directive does not apply to the media. moreover, the exceptions reiterate that they do not infringe freedom of information. finally, the introductory provisions also state that the directive must not have adverse effects on the activities of whistleblowers. even when disclosures constitute legitimate business practices in hindsight, the court may choose to protect the whistleblower.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the 'trade secret' directive voted yesterday, it is necessary to protect smes, which are the main victims of the misuse of information (manufacturing process, prototype, customer list, etc.) which jeopardises innovation in small enterprises, competitiveness and employment. we must also protect freedom of expression, whistleblowers and journalists who regularly reveal scandalous behaviour such as the panama papers or luxleaks. it is worth mentioning that this text deals with 'business secrets' and contains for the first time in european law provisions which will protect whistleblowers. it's a first step. nevertheless, it seemed to me essential that the commission should undertake to propose legislation of its own, which it did not do! that's why i abstained. our aim is to encourage whistleblowers and journalists to continue their investigative work which is so useful for the public interest. i regret that a genuine campaign of misinformation has been carried out about the content of this directive; this is a very important issue for the citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to protect trade secrets. it is of crucial importance to our european companies that they are protected against economic espionage.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this provisional statement of parliament's 2017 revenue. the report stresses that the european parliament must have sufficient resources to fulfil its primary role as a legislative body and budgetary authority and that, in the current economic context, these resources must be managed with rigour, pragmatism and efficiency. the report also notes that, while the desire to ensure a sufficient level of parliamentary funding is appropriate for the exercise of european democracy, efforts to find ways of making savings and making even more efficient use of public funds are strongly encouraged. it also stressed that the bulk of parliament's budget and its annual indexation were set by legal or contractual obligations which the european parliament could not influence during the budgetary procedure.
in writing. – i voted against the resolution on revenue and expenditure for the financial year of 2017 for one very good reason. it lacks transparency with regard to the use of resources. to sum up a few of the problems with regard to this, i follow the comments of nils torvalds (alde mep) in the plenary debate, who remarked that: ‘there is no differentiation between investments and current expenditure, there is no detailed information on how extraordinary expenditure is used in reality and no control on how different budget lines are used outside the original intention of the budget (torvalds, 2016).’ as an mep to whom transparency towards the eu citizen is of the utmost importance, i believe that my decision to vote against this resolution needs no further explanation.
in writing. ‒ like almost all of the alde group, i voted against the estimates of the european parliament's budget for 2017 for three reasons. from a procedural point of view, it is surprising that the last arbitration resulted from a singular head-to-head between the rapporteur of the committee on budgets (whose competence i do not dispute) and the secretary-general of parliament without any involvement of the fictitious rapporteurs representing the various political groups. the reductions in the content do not seem to me appropriate in view of the way parliament works. others, more justified, have fallen into the trap. as far as the building policy and safety are concerned, no serious information has been provided to the committee on budgets to justify the amounts requested. all these reasons, in my view, clearly justify my voting against.
in writing. ‒ in difficult times, budgetary, economic and social, when great efforts are required of european citizens, it is the duty of every public authority to set a good example. the budget must be fair and balanced, and it must first of all take account of its own expenditure. and in this respect, this report is also absolutely lacking. the estimate of the revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for the financial year 2017 is not lower but is 3.9% higher than in 2016, according to this report. in view of the terrorist threat, additional security measures are indeed necessary. but the budget for this must first be sought within the existing resources. moreover, an increase of 3.9% is completely disproportionate. parliament has again failed to examine sufficiently where it can work more efficiently, and the report has also failed to look for the cheapest option in new proposals. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives and to adopt them. the n-va meps therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted the report on the union's amending budget 1/2016 and the first financing under the new instrument to provide emergency aid within the union to relieve countries, such as greece, that are experiencing a massive influx of refugees and migrants. the ep has therefore approved the redeployment of eur 100 million in commitment appropriations under heading 3 (security) of the multiannual financial framework for immediate financing needs under this new mechanism for humanitarian aid in the territory of the union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the adoption of this amending budget also makes it possible to increase the staff of the european counter-terrorism centre within europol and to provide the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations of eur 2 million from a redeployment from the internal security fund.
in writing. - i followed the advice of my colleague tarand. the share of parliament's budget in 2017 should be kept below 20% of heading 5. i note that the level of the preliminary draft estimate for 2017, as adopted by the bureau on 7 march 2016, is 19,26%, which is lower than the level of 2016 (19,39%) and the second lowest level for heading 5 in eight years. its share in heading 5 is further reduced to 19,17% for 2017. however, given the slowdown in economic activity in the member states, the inflation rate forecast for 2017 should not be considered as the main reference for increases in current expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution. the internal integration of the chauffeur service should not lead to an increase in costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the text. it is true that it is right and good to make a clear statement against the violations of human rights and the violations of the freedom of the press in turkey. however, this cannot be linked to the continuation of the accession negotiations. the text covers the opening of further negotiating chapters. i am, however, opposed to turkey's accession to the european union in principle. if we do not want to jeopardize the way in which we operate and the original idea of europe, the european union must not be expanded indefinitely. the eu is fully in favour of increased cooperation with turkey, for example in tackling the root causes of the current refugee crisis or in combating islamist terrorism more effectively. however, important evidence of trust is lacking. the negotiations with turkey have now been going on for over ten years without any real progress being made in the area of freedom of expression or justice. the opposite is true.
in writing. ‒ i approved this report on turkey because it seemed balanced to me. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the turkish government's actions. it also recalled that turkey is a key strategic partner for the european union and that active and credible negotiations would be an appropriate framework for exploiting the full potential of eu-turkey relations. in this respect, the report notes the relaunch of the negotiation process by the union and hopes that the opening of new chapters will lead to concrete progress. it also strongly supports a structured, more frequent and more open high-level political dialogue on key issues of common interest, such as migration, the fight against terrorism, energy, the economy and trade.
in writing. – i endorse the motion of the resolution because i cannot ignore the problems that the turkish citizens are currently facing. the government continuously disregards the rule of law, human rights and democratic values. corruption is thriving and the independence of the media is under threat. with regard to the latter, the violent takeover of the turkish newspaper zaman (and others) was illegal and contrary to the values that the eu (or any other democracy) stands for. in addition, its anti-terrorism laws seem to be in violation of the echr, which needs to be respected by turkey. in addition, the resolution calls upon peace and stability in the kurdish region and expresses over recent developments with regard to these populations. however, turkey remains our partner, both on economic terms and politically. in this regard, the resolution recognises its efforts in countering isil and other areas of cooperation between us. with regard to the refugee crisis, i would have very much liked to see an eu solution to the refugee crisis. since we have chosen not to, i can now, at least, welcome the call for closely monitoring that the eu funds to turkey of eur 3 billion, are properly spent.
in writing. enlargement is a mechanism that directly serves the emergence of the union as a world power. to be credible, the union must develop a fair approach to the accession of this country, whose importance for ensuring regional and, beyond that, global stability is a reality. today, the union and turkey have established a strategic relationship which allows them to develop enhanced cooperation to face many challenges together. however, concerns about respect for human rights, freedom of the press and assembly, gender equality and minorities (i.e. roma, kurds, christians and jews), among others, are very real and cannot be ignored. we cannot condone police impunity, or the amendment of the internet law, or the violation of lgbti rights. we cannot accept any distortion of the principle of the separation of powers. a credible accession process requires the restoration of trust between partners who are keen to develop a constructive political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on the final vote on this report on turkey in 2015, which stresses that turkey is a key strategic partner for the european union and that active and credible negotiations would be an appropriate framework to exploit the full potential of the eu-turkey relationship, and which hopes that the opening of new chapters of negotiations can lead to concrete progress.
in writing. ‒ the relationship between the european union and turkey has never been easy. the attitude of some eu member states towards turkey is at least ambiguous, sometimes even hostile. in the past, several eu member states have held off on turkey's accession to the eu. this is despite the fact that turkey was explicitly seeking rapprochement during that period and made considerable progress in the legal and economic fields and in its relations with the kurds. however, relations with turkey have recently become more complex. turkey is rapidly evolving towards an authoritarian regime, with organized violence against the opposition, the mugging of journalists and other violations of fundamental freedoms. turkey is exploiting the refugee crisis and blackmailing the european union. the greens are outraged by these gross violations and the increasingly authoritarian behaviour of the erdogan regime. the greens are rallying behind the progress report on turkey. it advocates a difficult balance between further support for the turkish accession process and at the same time being highly critical of domestic developments. the current state of affairs in turkey precludes any possibility of accession to the union. the country does not meet the accession criteria at all.
in writing. ‒ parliament expressed its concern, given the decline in respect for democracy and the rule of law in turkey, the considerable slowdown in the overall pace of reforms in turkey in recent years and the regression in some key areas such as the independence of the judiciary, freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and respect for human rights and the rule of law, which is moving further and further away from the prospect of the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria which the candidate countries must respect. parliament also stressed that turkey was a key strategic partner for the european union and that active and credible negotiations would be an appropriate framework for exploiting the full potential of eu-turkey relations. we want tangible progress and real commitment from turkey. we strongly support a structured, more frequent and more open high-level political dialogue on key issues of common interest, such as migration, the fight against terrorism, energy, the economy and trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the 2015 progress report on turkey because it calls on the european commission and the council of the european union to reassess the whole strategy behind the accession negotiations with ankara. it is simply unacceptable to open new chapters in the accession process when at the same time the freedom of the press in turkey is being drastically restricted.
in writing. ‒ enlargement of the european union must be seen as an opportunity to offer political stability and peaceful relations to both future new entrants and current member states. this european integration requires a series of reforms in line with the democratic identity, including strict respect for the rule of law and the fight against corruption and organised crime. i voted in favour of this report because albania is gradually making the necessary reforms and i can only welcome this determination towards a democratic transition which offers, and will continue to offer, well-being to the albanian community. it is important that the country's public authorities do not slow down or even accelerate this pace in view of the high level of corruption in the administration and the lack of media independence, which are serious obstacles to eventual entry into the union.
in writing. i welcome the efforts made by albania to join the european union. i particularly welcome the adoption by the government of an action plan against corruption, which sends a strong signal. it shows both awareness and political will of the incompatibility of these practices with european values and achievements. however, albania still needs to persevere in the fight against corruption and organised crime and to make progress towards the establishment of the rule of law by pursuing reform of the judiciary, defending freedom of the press and safeguarding human and children's rights. i encourage albania to also take environmental protection into account and call on it to consider the consequences of the deployment of hydroelectric power stations and to consult the populations potentially affected.
in writing. ‒ in the text of this report, which was adopted, parliament welcomes the steady progress made by albania in reforms around the priority objectives, while encouraging the albanian parliament and political parties not to slacken the pace of reforms. the text adopted draws attention to the fact that, in the long term, constructive dialogue between the political forces is essential for the process of accession to the european union, but also for the adoption and implementation of the main reforms, while strongly emphasising the importance of maintaining their commitment to building a democratic political culture, characterised in particular by openness to dialogue, negotiation and compromise, and the total exclusion of boycott and radicalism. parliament also stressed the need to address the shortcomings currently affecting the functioning of the judiciary, such as political interference, high levels of corruption, ineffective control mechanisms, etc., while encouraging the european commission to take account of albania's progress in the five priority areas when considering whether to recommend the opening of accession negotiations. i have chosen to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, parliament welcomed the steady progress made by albania in the reforms it is pursuing around the priority objectives set for the opening of accession negotiations. it encouraged the government, parliament and political parties not to slow down or even to speed up the pace of reforms and called on them to rapidly embark on a comprehensive reform of the judiciary; it also stressed the importance of implementing these reforms correctly and without delay. we call on all political parties to continue their efforts to establish a more constructive and genuine political dialogue to enable the adoption and implementation of the essential reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reduction on albania, as significant progress has been made on the five main priorities for opening accession negotiations. of course, further progress is needed in certain areas, such as the fight against corruption and the independence of the judiciary.
in writing. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina submitted its application for membership of the european union on 15 february 2016. this initiative should make the country more democratic and stimulate a real desire for european integration in these times of euroscepticism within the eu member states. i voted in favour of this report because it illustrates the progress and backwardness of a country in a strong transition - a transition which will make it possible, in particular, to strengthen the rule of law and the question of fundamental freedoms. at present, it is particularly worrying to note the polarization of bosnian society in nationalist and separatist temptations, or the presence of corruption at the highest levels of the state. bosnia-herzegovina must carry out the necessary reforms and i shall be glad to read the next report on this matter.
in writing. i am pleased to see the democratic progress of bosnia and herzegovina (bh), 20 years after the dayton agreement. the latter must be encouraged to continue its efforts towards european integration. accession to the european union entails the obligation to respect the european values contained in the copenhagen criteria. one of the most important community acquis is non-discrimination. it is therefore essential for the bosnian government to implement an inclusive policy, including all its citizens, respecting and promoting the rights of minorities in the country. however, much progress remains to be made given the country's internal institutional and political complexity. in order to initiate political and democratic stabilisation in accordance with the european model, it is necessary that bih continue its development in accordance with the reforms recommended by the union; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the environment and the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ the adopted text welcomes the first more positive report on bosnia and herzegovina and the application for eu membership submitted by that country on 15 february 2016. in the text adopted, parliament took the view that an effective coordination mechanism for union-related issues between the different levels of government was essential to ensure better interaction with the union, and welcomed, at the same time, the adoption by the council of ministers of bosnia and herzegovina of the decision on a coordination system for the european integration of bosnia and herzegovina. i have chosen to abstain in the final vote on this report.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, the european parliament welcomed the first more positive report from the commission on bosnia and herzegovina and reiterated its unequivocal commitment to the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina. we call on the authorities to demonstrate their determination to pursue institutional and socioeconomic reforms, including their effective implementation, and to make steady progress towards union. we also call for transparency in the process of planning and implementing reforms in bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this report highlights the positive progress made and encourages bosnia and herzegovina, together with its political leaders, to further intensify the reform plans.
in writing. ‒ i have of course supported this resolution which calls on the commission and the member states to invest fully in the fight against poverty and social exclusion and to adopt an integrated approach to tackle the various forms of poverty through a comprehensive approach combining economic policies, education policies, employment policies, energy policies, transport policies and social policies on the basis of best practice. the fight against poverty must of course be our top priority, given that more than 120 million europeans are currently affected by this situation of precariousness, which has been further exacerbated by the austerity policies implemented in europe following the 2008 banking and financial crisis.
in writing. – i abstained from voting on this resolution. the objective of the initiative is righteous and a target to work to. household incomes should increase and the fight against poverty is a continuous concern of us all. for all of these reasons, i did not vote against the resolution. however, i do not believe that the proposals made will reach this objective. they go against the free market principle and offer therefore only short-term solutions for which we will pay a high price in the long run. in sum, my goal is to reduce poverty and to increase household income. in addition, i completely agree that renewable energy should play a more prominent role in our lives. however, the only way to achieve these goals is research and development which will lead to employment. this requires large sums of investment that can only be attracted by creating an investor-friendly environment in a free market economy.
europe has set itself ambitious energy targets. to meet international environmental commitments while reducing its dependence on energy supplies from neighbouring countries, the eu is seeking to increase the use of renewable energy sources, optimise energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gases. in pursuing these objectives, we cannot lose sight of the other ambition of europe, namely to guarantee decent living conditions for all european citizens. and that is why we must build bridges between the eu's energy policy and its social policy. the introduction of a european moratorium on the shutdown of heating during winter can save vulnerable families from social exclusion. however, to reduce the risk of energy poverty, support for structural measures such as energy efficiency in housing is needed. equal access to energy and the benefits of energy efficiency, and thus reducing energy poverty, will also make it easier for the eu and its member states to meet ambitious energy and climate targets.
in writing. ‒ the fight against poverty in all its forms requires us to overcome partisan divisions. it must be a priority for ethical and humanitarian reasons, but also because poverty is a real economic waste. the main tools in this struggle are the development of employment and the guarantee of an income that allows a decent living. the eu 2020 objectives are far from being achieved. if the european union is to achieve its 'triple a' social status, it is essential to reverse this trend. we need to be aware that poor households are particularly impacted by different types of costs. this is the case for energy or housing, but also for food, healthcare or public services. we need coherent policies that integrate all the drivers of poverty. families living in poverty do not need speeches; they need concrete and practical actions. i hope that this own-initiative report will be understood by the commission and the member states as a call to action.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation fully supports the european fight against poverty, but regrets the approach envisaged in the report. she therefore abstained. the n-va believes that member states should achieve european poverty reduction targets, and the union has a supporting role in this. however, the principle of subsidiarity requires that member states be left free to decide how they achieve these objectives. the n-va cannot therefore support a european minimum income scheme. the report also takes a rather one-sided approach to increasing public spending, without, for example, focusing on avoiding the 'unemployment trap'. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a reduction in the amount of energy consumption in the form of a reduction in the amount of energy used in the production of electricity. the aim is to make people self-reliant rather than dependent on benefits; benefits should go to those who really need them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text which calls on the commission and the member states to invest fully in the fight against poverty and social exclusion and to adopt an integrated approach to tackle its various forms through a comprehensive approach combining economic policies, education policies, employment policies, energy policies, transport policies and social policies on the basis of best practice. we call, among other things, on the member states to sign a moratorium on winter heating cuts so as to ensure that no household can be without electricity for a defined winter period and that those who are without electricity are reconnected, stressing that the costs arising from this are by nature a matter of public responsibility since social policies are primarily the responsibility of the authorities. states should also assess the measures needed to meet the thermal comfort standards set by the world health organisation.
in writing. ‒ introducing a european moratorium on the shutdown of heating during the winter months can save vulnerable families from social exclusion. however, in order to reduce the risk of energy poverty, support for structural measures such as energy efficiency in housing is necessary. this is the way to build a bridge between the energy policy and the social policy of the european union. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which underlines that private sector investment in development can contribute to the achievement of the un sustainable development goals. but the report also argues that this should be achieved by private sector commitments to good governance, poverty reduction and wealth creation through sustainable investment, reduction of inequalities, and action to promote human rights, environmental standards and the empowerment of local economies. the report also stresses the importance of supporting the local private sector in developing countries, for example through access to finance and action to promote entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i voted for, takes up a commission communication and proposes a framework for action to strengthen the role of the private sector in developing countries. the private sector provides 90% of jobs in developing countries and is therefore a key partner in the fight against poverty. the private sector also plays a key role as an investor in sustainable agricultural production (and thus attempting to meet the challenge of feeding 9 billion people by 2050...). a recent evaluation of eu private sector development assistance between 2004 and 2010 confirmed the commission's significant contribution to private sector development in partner countries and identified ways to improve future programmes and strategies, in particular with a view to focusing on decent job creation and mainstreaming private sector participation in all eu support activities.
in writing. ‒ the increasing pressure on public finances and the need for additional resources to address global challenges is leading european policymakers to increasingly see the private sector as a co-development actor. the report also calls for greater public-private partnership and the creation of an attractive investment climate in developing countries. but as greens, we do not blindly believe in the private sector and the trickle-down effect of private investment in the development sector. private funding can be useful, but it should never be a substitute for public development funds. public resources and public-public partnerships must remain the first option of the european union's development efforts. the commission can only use the private sector as a second option and under strict conditions. the deployment of private resources must be transparent and contribute to the central objectives of european development policy. human rights violations and tax evasion must be avoided at all times. thanks to an alternative majority, we have substantially revised the pro-business discourse in this report. it now takes account of the dangers of private involvement and provides for the necessary safeguards. only under these conditions can we see a role for the private sector.
in writing. - i voted for the text. indeed, as we begin to reassess our commitments abroad, the role of the private sector in development is increasingly a prominent part of the debate. despite many successes, it is estimated that annual global spending in developing countries will be usd 2.4 trillion higher than it is today - a burden that the already heavily taxed taxpayer is unlikely to be willing to bear. as imperfect as a public-private partnership may be, there is no development project in the world today that is not implemented in consultation and cooperation with private investors. moreover, population growth and rising incomes in developing countries are expected to lead to a strong growth in the global middle class, estimated at 5 billion people by 2030, leading to a significant increase in consumption levels. demand for food, water and energy is expected to increase by 50%, 40% and 30% respectively by 2030. it's time to act.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to mobilise private capital in new and innovative ways to fight global poverty, as part of a broader approach to development.
mr president, i would like to propose a compromise. yes, it is a very important subject. it is not just an emotional issue, it is an issue of industrial policy and economic policy. and if this parliament wants to be heard, it has the right to speak before the commission and not after it. i am very sensitive to the arguments put forward by the socialists and the efdd group for doing this before. now there is nothing to prevent us from doing so at the first part-session in strasbourg in may. we are still on time, and well ahead of the commission. we can organise it properly rather than inserting it at the last moment into the agenda. we may then be able to prepare it with our heads rested and to plan a resolution at the end of the debate.
i would like to limit my intervention to the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. the report by mr pirinski contains a whole series of excellent recommendations to this end, including the recommendation to the european investment bank to improve the quality of information on final beneficiaries. there is also a very explicit request from parliament and the committee on budgetary control to the eib to prevent more effectively transactions with financial intermediaries who have a negative score in terms of transparency, fraud, corruption, organised crime, money laundering and activities which have harmful social and environmental consequences. well, mr hoyer, i'll tell you what. what will you do with those recommendations? do you take it to heart? what will you do to ensure that these recommendations are taken into account in the coming year? thank you.
today we absolutely need a stronger european investment climate. should the european investment bank play a major role in this? yes, of course, but we must also face the reality that the eib is not a charitable institution. the eib is a european investment bank. we must not lose sight of the financial aspect, because the eib can only do what it does if we value its aaa rating. if we jeopardise them, we jeopardise the loans with which we can finance these projects. i do not think that is always clear in this report. the report also mentions the eib as a convergence engine. it is as if the european investment bank should only invest in regions and countries which are economically less well off. i think that's wrong. the eib should also look at stronger regions where major projects are under way which these regions or member states cannot finance alone, as they too have large investment needs. thank you, sir.
in writing. in view of the current economic situation, the european union decided in september 2014 to launch an investment plan. in this context, the eib must give priority to investments that accelerate recovery and increase productivity while encouraging youth employment, innovation and smes! however, the juncker plan, launched in july 2015 to revive the european economy, is getting off to a slow start. the plan aims to inject €315 billion into the european economy over three years and create one million jobs. but according to figures provided by the european commission, only €7.5 billion has been disbursed by the efsi since its creation. at this rate, it can be estimated that €45 billion would be financed over a three-year period, or only about two thirds of the €63 billion announced in the commission's projections. that is why we have insisted in this report that all means should be used to finance projects linked to supporting the eu's political objectives.
there are few moments when the european union reflects on its very existence and on its actions vis-à-vis its citizens. i therefore take up the discharge for the general budget to urge this parliament of this european union to reflect on this. the almost religious dogma, whereby those in power here always see more union as a better solution to any problem, must end. first of all, this has not been proven true: the chaos in the euro and the chaos in immigration illustrate this perfectly. secondly, the public disagrees with this. i therefore strongly protest the arrogant way in which the outcome of the recent dutch referendum on eu policy has been ignored in this parliament.
the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome and has been a party to the treaty of rome. a hundred years ago, the great war raged in the trenches of the iron curtain, and after the war, the iron tower, a flemish peace monument, was erected there, bearing the message "never again war" in four languages. that cry remains an unfulfilled longing in 2016. war is still there, and war is always horrible, for soldiers and for innocent civilians. my parents and grandparents told the stories hundreds of times. today, the rapid means of communication leave nothing to the imagination. we see the horror immediately on our television or computer screens and we are shocked that civilians are being hit, that hospitals and schools are not being spared. these should be just safe havens, neutral and protected places. and this is not just happening in syria, afghanistan or yemen, outside europe. i have seen firsthand how schools are being militarized and hospitals are being deliberately targeted in eastern ukraine, in europe. all too often international humanitarian law must give way to a crude power politics. it is all too easy to dismiss the loss of life as simply collateral damage, which it is not. the eu's unique and ambitious toolkit to promote compliance with the basic principles of humanitarian law is well known. it is now up to the european union and its member states to show that they mean business. the world summit on humanitarian aid at the end of next month in istanbul is therefore not a day too early. this international instrument and this momentum must be seized with both hands. madam secretary, i have one more question. can you tell me why the countries that participated in the 32nd international conference of the red cross and red crescent in december 2015 were unable to agree on a new mechanism that would strengthen the governance system of international humanitarian law, and how do we avoid a similar scenario at the upcoming world summit?
in writing. the information society and information and communication technologies (ict) can serve as springboards for women's empowerment and gender equality. i regret that women are currently underrepresented in the ict sector. it is therefore necessary to remedy this situation. to do this, it is essential to orient the digital single market strategy in this direction, and to insist that the next gender equality strategy proposes specific measures to support women's integration and participation in the information society and to actively promote women's networks online. i am thinking in particular of education, which must promote digital culture and the education of women and girls in the field of ict through the integration of new technologies into the curricula at all levels; i am also thinking of continuing education, which must pay particular attention to women aged 50 and over, with the aim of protecting them against exclusion from the labour market; and i am thinking of the fight against violence against women in the digital world, in particular the problems of harassment on the internet.
madam president, commissioner, everyone here knows that the agreement between the european union and turkey is the direct consequence of the inability of the member states to agree on a responsible and supportive asylum policy. the truth, let us face it, is that we have decided to outsource the refugee problem to turkey for a hefty, stumbling fee. and since march 20th, turkey has done the job that we were unable to do, as evidenced by the dramatic decline in the number of refugees leaving greece for turkey today. since 20 march, turkey has also been doing the job it should have done without blackmail or financial compensation if it had been a loyal partner of the union. there are three emergencies left today: first, the frontline countries - greece today, italy tomorrow - must be helped to understand the burden they are carrying. secondly, asylum seekers have rights, and i say rights, which must be fully respected: non-refoulement, individual examination, right of appeal, and a reception which respects human dignity. and finally, the final challenge is to pay what was agreed, but on the condition that each party fully complies with the commitments made. the eu will have to ensure that the abolition of the visa requirement does not create new security and illegal immigration risks. our responsible humanism cannot be confused with a happy angelicism. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". thank you for asking. i could answer that, but i do not think it is for me to do so, but for the commission and those who negotiated the agreement. so your question is addressed to the commission and the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which will allow croatia to take part in the agreement on the creation of a common airspace between the european union, its member states and georgia and to define the linguistic adaptations to be made to the agreement as a result of croatia's accession.
in writing. i have signed a protocol amending the agreement on the establishment of a common airspace between the european union and georgia to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu. the eu-georgia agreement was negotiated in 2009 on the basis of the european council decision and signed in 2010, and aims to create a common airspace between the eu and georgia, a key and strategic ally in the caucasus region.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the creation of a common airspace between the european union, its member states and georgia was negotiated on the basis of the council decision adopted in june 2009 authorising the opening of negotiations. it was signed on 2 december 2010. the agreement with georgia was the first comprehensive air transport agreement signed with a leading air transport partner in the caucasus region. this agreement is a component of the union's external aviation policy as established by the commission. i have decided to follow the tran committee's advice on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which will allow croatia to take part in the euro-mediterranean agreement on air services between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, and to define the linguistic adaptations to be made to the agreement by reason of croatia's accession.
in writing. i support the council resolution on the conclusion of a protocol amending the euro-mediterranean agreement on air services between the eu and israel to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. this agreement was negotiated on the basis of the council decision adopted in april 2008 and signed on 10 june 2013, and is the first step in establishing a common airspace with israel, a major partner in the mediterranean. the vote today will allow croatia to join the eu-israel common mediterranean airspace agreement and to include some linguistic adaptations to it. this new protocol is therefore required and is in line with the act of accession of croatia to the union negotiated in 2013 and with european council decision 13351/12 and forms part of the 'acquis communautaire', which is essential for european integration.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted in favour of this recommendation which, on the basis of the recommendation of the committee on transport and tourism of the european parliament, gives its approval to the conclusion of the agreement and instructs the president of the parliament to forward the parliament's position to the council, the commission, and the governments and parliaments of the member states and the state of israel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union and its member states, and provisional application of a protocol amending the euro-mediterranean agreement on air services between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of the republic of croatia. the purpose of the protocol is to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean agreement on air services between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the government of the state of israel, of the other part, and to define the linguistic adaptations to be made to the agreement by reason of the accession of croatia. the protocol does not make any substantial changes to the euro-mediterranean air services agreement.
in writing. ‒ with this agreement, croatia will have to respect the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations, as all eu member states do.
in writing. in view of the act of accession of croatia to the union and the proper observance of the procedures based on article 34 teu, i welcome the recommendation of the commission and the council on the accession of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations. although this recommendation is only aimed at determining a date for accession to the convention, i am convinced that administrative customs cooperation is essential to the proper external and internal functioning of the union in order to achieve an ever more integrated europe. i also believe that we must facilitate the accession of new member states to the international and european conventions and treaties which form the union's acquis communautaire.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation which, having regard to the recommendation of the committee on transport and tourism of the european parliament, approves the conclusion of the protocol and instructs the president of the assembly to forward parliament's position to the council, the commission, the governments and parliaments of the member states and georgia.
in writing. ‒ in line with previous votes, i followed the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of the republic of croatia to the convention of 18 december 1997, drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union, on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations.
in writing. ‒ following the unanimous decision of the committee on legal affairs, i have approved the waiver of mr piecha's parliamentary immunity.
in writing. i voted in favour of the waiver of mr piecha's parliamentary immunity in respect of a traffic offence committed in poland before the start of his term as an mep. it is true that parliamentary immunity is important and fundamental to allow members to exercise their mandate and all that follows from it in an independent and unhindered manner. there is a clear article to that effect (article 9 protocol 7) in our code of privileges and immunities of the european union, which guarantees the immunity of each member of parliament within his national territory, provided that the act in question is drawn up in the course of the performance of his duties. in the present case, that is not the case, since the infringement was committed before the beginning of the term of office of the person concerned. furthermore, mr piecha admitted the facts as he agreed to pay the fine for the infringement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr boleslaw g. piecha's immunity, so that the polish judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, on the understanding that this request, which relates to speeding in urban areas, is clearly not linked to mr piecha's office as a member of parliament and is not motivated by the desire to harm the member's political activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of my colleague for the simple reason that he will be able to explain himself before his national court.
in writing. ‒ this resolution brings the debate on how to safeguard the interests of children in particular situations within the union. the resolution proposes new approaches to judicial proceedings relating to the placement of a child, the placement and adoption of children, and also to cases of crossborder parental abduction. it is obviously essential to protect children and to have harmonized systems for child welfare services, especially in an open europe!
in writing. i welcome the adoption by parliament of this resolution on the protection of the best interests of the child throughout the union on the basis of petitions to the european parliament. this resolution, which highlights the large number of petitions relating to children received by parliament, focuses in particular on crossborder cases involving children. these cases, whether they concern conflicts between parents of different nationalities, kidnappings, placements or adoptions, require full cooperation between the member states. in this respect, the lack of mutual recognition between member states of decisions involving children, such as adoption decisions, is a shortcoming which needs to be addressed as soon as possible. another area addressed by the resolution, which cannot suffer from a lack of cooperation between member states, is that of child abductions with a cross-border dimension. it is therefore imperative that we exploit the full potential of police and judicial cooperation to strengthen our action and to always act in the best interests of the child.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, which was voted yesterday, we asked for specialised chambers within the high courts or crossborder mediation bodies to ensure the rapid handling of crossborder cases involving children. the text, approved with a show of hands, recommends that the legal loopholes in the brussels ii regulation on family law be closed. the european parliament called on the member states to improve their legal cooperation and on the commission to help provide clear information to all european citizens on legal procedures relating to children, such as parental rights in different european countries. parliament also stressed that children caught in crossborder family disputes have the right to maintain regular and direct contact with their parents, unless this contact is harmful to them.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation believes that the best interests of the child always come first and has therefore supported this report. the n-va stands for an inclusive society with a tailor-made equality policy that takes account of all the various target groups. this applies to all genders and particularly to the rights of children. the report contains many good elements. it emphasises that the best interests of the child must be taken into account in all decisions and at all levels, while respecting the principle of non-discrimination. the report is concerned with the fact that it seems to be at times contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. for the n-va, this principle is fundamental and policy must always be conducted at the appropriate level.
in writing. ‒ with today's vote we wanted to invite member states to set up monitoring and evaluation systems (with relevant socioeconomic and nationality-based statistics) within a national coordination framework on cross-border conflicts involving children. we also recommend that the commission coordinate the transfer of information between the relevant authorities in the member states.
in writing. ‒ in his state of the union address on 9 september 2015, the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, said that he wanted to 'develop a european pillar of social rights that takes account of developments in the world of work. and that can serve as a compass for the return to convergence in the euro area". a few months later, the commission presented a first draft of what this european pillar of social rights should be. this text should be developed further, taking into account the views of the eu authorities, the social partners, civil society and citizens. for my part, i have always been a strong advocate of social convergence from the top within the euro area and the wider european union. and if we want this pillar to help us move towards greater convergence, it is, in my view, essential to take account of the opinion of the european economic and social committee. this is why i voted without hesitation in favour of this request from the empl commission to the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, to initiate the eesc consultation on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the creation of a european pillar of social rights as set out in article 137 of the regulation on the european economic area.
in writing. ‒ the agreement should allow railway undertakings and manufacturers of railway equipment across the union to achieve further economies of scale. this will reduce administrative costs and speed up procedures, while maintaining the current high level of security. it will also significantly reduce the volume of national rules in areas where harmonised regulation at union level has been put in place.
in writing. the european parliament approved, at first reading, the council's position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for railways and repealing regulation no 881/2004. it is essential to improve the quality and efficiency of rail services. significant changes have already been made through the three previous railway packages. these have helped to increase the competitiveness and interoperability of european railways while maintaining a high level of safety. unfortunately, the sector still has some shortcomings in terms of competition, discrimination and the absence of a liberalized, dynamic and business-friendly environment. in order to improve the performance and efficiency of the sector, the commission has presented this fourth railway package. the proposal for a regulation on the tfa is the technical part of this package. this is to improve the technical compatibility of infrastructure, rolling stock, signalling and other parts of the railway system and to simplify the procedures for authorising rolling stock for use on the whole railway network.
in writing. ‒ the european railway agency (era), created in 2004 and located in valenciennes, needs to be strengthened. this is in any case the choice made by the members of the european parliament this afternoon with the adoption of the fourth railway package. today, the management of technical and safety requirements is shared between the tsa and the national authorities, which increases costs, especially for new companies in the railway sector. the commission believes that the package of measures (single window, enhanced role in the implementation of the european rail traffic management system (ertms) etc.) should allow for a 20% acceleration of procedures for new entrants and a 20% reduction in the costs and time required for the issuing of authorisations for rolling stock by 2025. that's an estimated savings of 500 million euros. the other important measures of the agreement reached by parliament and the council in june 2015 include the dual system for the issuing of vehicle authorisations and safety certificates for railway undertakings. if the tso is solely responsible for cross-border operations, it should share its prerogative with the national safety authorities for domestic traffic.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this recommendation, which was voted, is to amend the existing regulatory framework in order to define the new tasks of the european railway agency in the fields of interoperability and safety. new objectives including:•to further develop and ensure the proper functioning of a single european railway area without frontiers, ensuring a high level of railway safety and interoperability, while improving the competitive position of the railway sector; •monitor the development of national railway rules to support the achievements of national railway safety and interoperability authorities and promote the optimisation of procedures. where provided for in the safety and interoperability directives, the agency shall act as the union authority responsible for issuing authorisations to place vehicles and types of railway vehicles on the market and for issuing single safety certificates for railway undertakings. on 10 december 2015, the council adopted its position at first reading on all three draft directives. the european parliament formally approved the whole thing yesterday at second reading.
in writing. ‒ this regulation on the european railway agency (era) not only extends the agency's powers, it also clarifies its role. this role is essential to achieve the benefits of a single railway market. this proposal, which forms the technical pillar of the railway package together with the directives on interoperability and railway safety, introduces simplified procedures and centralises a number of information flows, thus significantly improving the service provided by the esb. in this way, this initiative will also benefit all eu citizens in the long run.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text, following the opinion of the tran expert. the agreement should allow railway undertakings and manufacturers of railway equipment across the union to achieve further economies of scale. this will reduce administrative costs and speed up procedures, while maintaining the current high level of security. at the same time, the agreement will help to avoid any hidden discrimination, in particular against firms wishing to enter a market. it will also significantly reduce the volume of national rules in areas where harmonised regulation at union level has been put in place. however, full effectiveness will require the agency and national authorities to work together, sharing expertise and information. even if the creation of a strong, well-resourced and efficient european railway agency is a condition for the development and proper functioning of the european market, it is certain that the agency cannot and should not do everything.
in writing. the european parliament has approved, at first reading, the adoption of the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the rail system within the european union (recast). over the last decade, the gradual introduction of three railway legislative packages has significantly changed the railway market in the european union. in 2013, the commission decided to present the fourth railway package on the quality and efficiency of rail services by removing the obstacles to the creation of a single european railway area. interoperability is part of this fourth package and aims to remove existing administrative and technical barriers. the aim is therefore to establish common safety and interoperability rules, to reduce administrative costs by speeding up procedures and to avoid disguised discrimination. all this while maintaining the current high level of security. with the agreement, companies will no longer have to submit several applications for registration, the projects for the european rail traffic management system will be interoperable, we will have a single point of sale, etc. this project will bring europe closer to a single european railway area.
in writing. ‒ the rail sector has so far responded only too little to consumer demand and has consequently seen its market share decline. improving interoperability, i.e. the possibility of running trains without hindrance on different rail networks, in particular networks located in different states, is one of the pillars of the fourth railway package voted on this afternoon by the european parliament. technical problems clearly identified included signalling, electrification, train length and gauge, and rail gauge. it seems absurd that in the 21st century there are still four different gauge standards on the main rail network in europe. the same applies to the direction of traffic: in germany, trains run on the right, in belgium on the left. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not a one-way street. as violeta bulc, commissioner for transport, has rightly pointed out, from 2023 onwards: 'the end of monopolies and the introduction of public procurement will encourage rail operators to respond better to customer needs and to improve the quality of their services'. belgian commuters will have to wait a little longer!
in writing. ‒ the recommendation voted on yesterday concerns the european directive which aims to establish the conditions to be met in order to achieve interoperability of the union's rail system in order to:• define an optimal level of technical harmonisation; • to facilitate, improve and develop rail transport services within the union and with third countries; • to contribute to the completion of the single european railway area and the progressive completion of the internal market. those conditions concern the design, construction, commissioning, upgrading, renewal, operation and maintenance of the elements of that system, the professional qualifications of the personnel contributing to its operation and maintenance, and the health and safety conditions applicable to such personnel. the intention is to increase the efficiency of the vehicle authorisation procedure by encouraging the recognition of interoperability authorisations throughout the union and by making national legal frameworks applicable to interoperability-related aspects of the internal rail market more consistent. on 10 december 2015, the council adopted its position at first reading on all three draft directives. the european parliament therefore formally approved the whole thing yesterday at second reading.
in writing. ‒ the present directive supports the further integration of the european railway market by eliminating multiple applications. this is not only easier, but it also prevents other national agencies from being sought when the outcome of an application is undesirable. the reduction in the number of national technical requirements contained in the directive is also welcome in this respect. the directive thus provides for harmonisation, with the added value of an initiative at european level being very clear.
in writing. ‒ over the last decade, the union rail market has been profoundly changed by the gradual introduction of three railway legislative packages designed to open up national markets and increase the competitiveness and interoperability of railways at union level, while maintaining high levels of safety. however, despite the considerable enrichment of the union acquis establishing an internal market for rail transport services, the modal share of rail in transport within the union remains modest. at present, the overall share of rail transport in the union market is stagnating at 6%, and according to eurobarometer, 54% of users are not satisfied with the services provided by rail. this explains the creation of the fourth railway package, which aims to improve the quality and efficiency of rail services by removing the remaining market barriers to the creation of a single european railway area.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of establishing a common regulatory framework for railway safety to continue efforts to create a single market for rail transport services. member states have developed their safety rules and standards mainly on the basis of national criteria, based on national technical and operational concepts. in addition, differences in principles, approaches and cultures make it difficult to overcome technical barriers and to establish international transport services. this revision therefore represents a major step towards the establishment of a common regulatory framework in the field of railway safety.
in writing. as rapporteur michael cramer said, it is welcome that 'from now on there will be a single framework for train authorisation and safety certification, replacing the patchwork of 26 national systems'. we can be satisfied that we have contributed to the harmonization of road traffic conditions. it is also clear that we are moving towards sustainable development, since the railway is more environmentally friendly than the road.
in writing. ‒ by adopting the 4th railway package this afternoon, meps have put rail services on track to improve quality and competitiveness in the interests of passengers. it has taken two years of tough negotiations with the council since the publication of three legislative proposals by the commission in january 2013 to reach an agreement covering interoperability, safety and the role of the european railway agency (era). the desired objective of creating a single european railway area is gradually being achieved. however, while the european rail network is gradually becoming more interoperable, reliable and safe, the focus must now be on the adoption of common european union standards for passenger safety, both in stations and on trains. the terrorist attacks on the brussels metro and zaventem international airport on 22 march and the terrorist attack on a thalys train on 21 august 2015 have sadly reminded us of the urgent need to strengthen security in public transport. all initiatives undertaken by the commission in collaboration with the national railway police and the railway police within the union, via the railpol network, should therefore be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ the recommendation voted on yesterday in plenary concerns the proposal for a recast of directive 2004/49/ec on railway safety, which, together with the proposal for a recast of directive 2008/57/ec on interoperability and the proposal for a regulation on the european railway agency, forms the technical part of the 4th railway package, focusing on the removal of the remaining administrative and technical obstacles in the railway sector. it aims to establish a common approach to safety in order to increase economies of scale for railway undertakings operating across the union, and to simplify and reform the administrative procedures for issuing safety certificates, which would end the fragmentation of rules across the union. more specifically, the aim of the railway safety directive is to amend the existing regulatory framework and to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the various actors in the railway system, in order to ensure adequate control of risks at all levels. on 10 december 2015, the council adopted its position at first reading on all three draft directives. parliament therefore formally approved the whole thing at second reading yesterday.
in writing. ‒ a sound railway safety policy is a prerequisite for further integration into a fully-fledged european railway market. safety first! it goes without saying that the safety of transnational rail transport must be organised according to the same high european standards. the proposal will address this by providing safety certificates by the european railway agency (era) when activities are set up across borders. the introduction of best practices in informing the families of victims and in the cooperation of the emergency services is also essential in the development of the single railway market.
in writing. - i voted for the railway safety part. in order to continue efforts to create a single market for rail transport services, it is necessary to establish a common regulatory framework for railway safety. member states have developed their safety rules and standards mainly on the basis of national criteria, based on national technical and operational concepts. in addition, differences in principles, approaches and cultures make it difficult to overcome technical barriers and to establish international transport services.
in writing. ‒ benchmarks are susceptible to manipulation where conflicts of interest and discretionary assessments are involved and not properly monitored. the objectives of the regulation are to improve the governance and controls applicable to the benchmark development process, in particular by ensuring that administrators avoid conflicts of interest or at least manage them appropriately. improve the quality of underlying data and the methods used by administrators; ensure that benchmark contributors and the data they provide are subject to adequate controls, in particular to avoid conflicts of interest; protect consumers and investors by enhancing transparency and providing adequate redress.
in writing. i am pleased that the european union has taken up such an important task as the manipulation of benchmarks in financial instruments and contracts. recent cases of manipulation of interest rate benchmarks such as the london interbank offered rate (libor) and the euro interbank offered rate (euribor) have shown a real flaw in our system. however, many financial instruments and contracts are directly linked to benchmarks. these indices are used, for example, to establish the price of oil or the exchange rate of the euro. cases of fraud and manipulation have allowed these indices to be influenced in a discretionary manner. this is unacceptable and harmful to our economic system. it was therefore essential to create a single regulatory framework. i am glad that europe is the first continent to do so.
in writing. ‒ amid scandals over the manipulation of libor in london, the european parliament voted this afternoon on a text that streamlines the process of calculating financial benchmarks, increases transparency and prevents conflicts of interest. these indices, the best known of which are libor and euribor, influence a very wide range of financial instruments, from mortgages to futures contracts and foreign exchange rates. the value of derivative contracts based on libor alone is estimated to exceed eur 350 000 000 000. this new european regulation, which is applicable immediately throughout the european union, creates three categories of benchmarks, subject to different supervisory regimes depending on the risks of destabilising financial markets they entail. in general, parliament has imposed stronger supervision of the actors involved in setting the indices, improved calculation methodologies, and ensured a high level of protection for consumers and investors using these indices.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted new legislation by 505 votes to 113, with 31 abstentions, to streamline the process of calculating benchmarks, increase transparency and avoid conflicts of interest such as those that have led to the libor manipulation scandals in recent years. the levels of benchmarks such as libor have major implications, particularly for european citizens who wish to take out a loan. these indices are also used to establish the price of oil and the exchange rate of the euro. therefore, given the important implications of these indices for the daily lives of european citizens, it is crucial that they are fully reliable. as this legislation offers advances in supervision, methodology and transparency, i have decided to support this text.
in writing. ‒ the manipulation of libor and exchange rate indices, as well as the alleged manipulation of other indices, have highlighted the importance of the indices as well as their weaknesses. in the wake of these revelations, the european union has revised its market abuse legislation to clarify the illegality of index manipulation and to include this type of behaviour in the criminal law. however, a comprehensive approach to preventing evidence manipulation must go beyond the mere recognition of the illegality of such acts. it should also take into account the macroprudential risks associated with the manipulation of commonly used indices. indeed, the excessive use of a small number of very broad indices, including where the vulnerabilities and shortcomings of those indices are known or suspected, underlines the importance of certain indices for the smooth functioning and stability of financial markets, commodity markets, and other types of markets, and of the economy as a whole. such systemic considerations justify the need for additional legislation, at least for the most frequently used indices, in order to improve governance and limit conflicts of interest and other weaknesses.
in writing. ‒ following the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i adopted the report recommending that the european commission be given discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2014 and that the heads of several agencies be given discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors gave a favourable opinion on the reliability of the 2014 accounts as regards revenue which is free from material error. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively.
in writing. ‒ the n-va cannot give the green light for the discharge of individual parts of the european budget before the full accounts have been approved by the european court of auditors.
in writing. i welcome the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the union. nevertheless, changes are needed. for the 21st consecutive year, payments related to the expenditure and operation of the commission are affected by a significant percentage of errors at the level of shared management with member states (4,6% compared to 4,9% in 2013) due, inter alia, to weaknesses in the commission's monitoring system. this error rate, which remains very high, occurs mainly in the areas of competitiveness and growth and in economic and social cohesion. the control mechanism must be strengthened and the commission must be asked to take measures to eliminate this error rate. there is also a need for accurate and reliable databases on member states' contributions to the union budget. gnp remains the most important source of revenue, so no error rates should remain. thirdly, the migration crisis must be the subject of special audits and reports in order to be able to calculate and control the budget that will be allocated to it. finally, i regret that several member states have failed to act on significant cases of fraud detected by olaf which harm the interests of the union.
in writing. ‒ by adopting this report, the european parliament decided to give the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the union for 2014. as regards operational expenditure, the estimated level of error for expenditure under shared management with member states is 4,6% (compared to 4,9% in 2013), which remains very high. we were also concerned that the estimate error rate had jumped to 4.6% (compared to 3.7% in 2013). parliament also expressed its concern at the data provided by eurodad on money laundering, according to which luxembourg and germany ranked first in terms of this risk (since the member states have to ratify the eu's anti-money laundering directive in full!). i also supported an amendment calling on the commission to ensure that eu funds are not used to support direct or indirect bullfighting and another calling for full transparency in the allowance for meps' overheads so that the european citizens can be informed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and i would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts both in relation to amendments and explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ following the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i have approved this report which recommends the granting of discharge to the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the commission's discharge for the financial year 2014. these are reports on the implementation of the funds which give parliament important information in the exercise of its discharge authority.
in writing. i welcome the special reports of the european court of auditors in the context of the commission's discharge for the financial year 2014. i would like to congratulate the court of auditors once again on the special reports it produces in very sensitive areas, particularly on the commission's budgetary and other management performance. the audits carried out by the court of auditors are essential for the proper functioning of the union budget. i am convinced that the 20 special reports produced this year by the court of auditors on the activities of the commission will optimise and improve the use of european funds. all of these have been discussed in parliament and all have been the subject of recommendations, which i support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge, which, in the light of the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014 and in the light of the positive report of the committee on budgetary control, gives the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the court of auditors for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report by the committee on budgetary control which recommends that the commission be given discharge for the implementation of the budget for the 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th edfs. the court of auditors states that the accounts of the edfs concerned present the situation of the edfs correctly as at 31 december 2014 and that the results of their operations are in accordance with the edf financial regulation. the report regrets, however, that the legality and regularity of payments have a significant level of error and calls on dg devco to be more rigorous in the management of its overall control system and in the use of available information.
in writing. i have approved the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the 8th, 9th, 10th and 11th edfs for the financial year 2014. i am pleased to note that the total budget support payments in 2014 amounting to eur 794 million were made under good conditions. only two of the 32 operations examined by the court of auditors were marked by quantifiable errors of minor impact. i would remind you that budgetary support is the best way of implementing the principle of ownership and thus allowing our friends and partners to decide for themselves their priorities and, therefore, their destiny. it allows for a genuine dialogue between donors and recipient countries, thereby making significant progress in human rights, educational, social and environmental policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge, the main points of which are:• the need to strengthen strongly the supervision of operations and the process of assurance of management, in particular as regards the responsibility of heads of union delegations for their management, control and information duties; • the need to increase the visibility of the achievements of the union delegations and to present an overview of them in the annual activity report of dg devco; • the need to better identify the sectors of activity where the greatest number of errors occur and the points for which the level of vulnerability is highest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on amendments, explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the report of the committee on budgetary control which calls on the european parliament to grant discharge to its president for the implementation of the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2014. the final appropriations of parliament for 2014 amount to eur 1,75 billion, with four chapters alone representing 72% of all commitments (members of the institution, officials and temporary staff, buildings and ancillary costs and expenditure on parliamentary assistance).
in writing. ‒ the n-va cannot give the green light for the discharge of individual parts of the european budget before the full accounts have been approved by the european court of auditors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european parliament for the financial year 2014, as the parliament's accounting officer confirmed that he had 'reasonable assurance that the accounts present a true and fair view of the financial position of the european parliament in all relevant respects and that no issues requiring a reservation have been brought to his attention'. the usual procedure was duly followed: a questionnaire was sent to the european parliament's administration and the replies were discussed in the committee on budgetary control, in the presence of the vice-president responsible for the budget, the secretary-general and the internal auditor. like the court of auditors, i believe that there should be complete transparency in the expenditure of european political parties.
in writing. ‒ parliament adopted this report yesterday, which focuses on the implementation of the 2014 budget. the main points of the draft report include the obligation to review security measures in parliament and the need to engage in closer cooperation with the belgian, french and luxembourg authorities on the subject and concerns about the large sums spent on dg comm's website, which is nonetheless difficult to navigate and fails to generate the desired visibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations, as well as during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the report adopted unanimously by the committee on budgetary control which calls on parliament to postpone its decision on the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. this is the consequence of a lack of transparency on the part of the council as regards the funds entrusted to it. parliament therefore asked the council to forward to it its annual activity report containing a detailed overview of all the human resources available to the two institutions, broken down by category, grade, sex, nationality and vocational training. the report also highlights the worrying lack of transparency in the legislative process, negotiations, member states' positions and meetings. it called on the council to publish the relevant documents and to put in place a clear reporting system which would enable the public to follow legislative procedures in an open and transparent manner.
in writing. i have decided to postpone my decision on the discharge to the general secretariat for the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014 until autumn, due to insufficient information. i remain concerned about the high percentage of unused appropriations in almost all areas. i therefore call for the development of key performance indicators to improve budgetary planning. the council must be more transparent by participating fully in the discharge procedure, as indeed do the other institutions. since 2009, the council has no longer been subject to this discharge exercise, refusing to provide the necessary information, to answer written questions and to attend hearings and debate on the implementation of its own budget. the dialogue between the two institutions must be improved, because it is our duty to respect the provisions of the treaty and to be accountable to the citizens.
in writing. ‒ in adopting this report yesterday, the european parliament decided to postpone its decision on the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. the ep stresses that since 2009 the council has refused to submit to the parliament's budgetary discharge exercise by refusing to provide the necessary information, to answer written questions and to attend hearings and debates concerning the implementation of its budget. as it stands, more than three billion euros of european public funds have been effectively spent in the dark! parliament therefore calls on the council to participate in the eu transparency register. it also reiterated its call on the european council and the council to forward to it their annual activity reports, including a detailed overview of all human resources available to the two institutions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations, as well as during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i have approved this report giving the registrar of the court of justice a discharge in respect of the implementation of its 2014 budget. the report welcomes in particular the fact that no significant deficiencies were observed in the audit of the human resources and procurement areas for the court of justice and that payments for the year are generally free from significant error.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the registry of the court of justice in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. no significant shortcomings were noted in the 2014 budget of the court of justice concerning the management of human resources, the management of public services or administrative expenditure. i commend the court of justice for its productivity in 2014 with 1685 cases closed out of 1691 cases brought before judges. however, improvements are still needed following a number of observations made on the management of the court's budget, such as greater transparency regarding the financial activities and interests of judges, the use of new technologies to reduce costs due to translation costs, a significant reduction in the unjustified number of official vehicles of the court (for a total cost of eur 1 168 251). i am also perplexed by the decision taken on 13 april to welcome new judges, including three for the civil service tribunal, which will soon disappear. one may wonder about the wisdom of such an expense.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge, which, in the light of the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors of the european union for the financial year 2014, and in the light of the positive report of the committee on budgetary control, gives the registrar of the court of justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the court of justice for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to highlight the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, in accordance with the report approved by the committee on budgetary control. recalling that the annual accounts of the court of auditors are audited by an independent external auditor, the report takes note of the opinion of these auditors that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the court.
in writing. i am in favour of a decision granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the court of auditors' budget for the financial year 2014. i acknowledge the essential role of the court of auditors and would like to congratulate it on its productivity record in 2014 and on the improvement in its execution rate. in 2014, the court had a budget of eur 133 498 000 with an implementation rate of 98,8% compared to a higher budget of eur 142 761 000 with an implementation rate of 92% in 2013. i am pleased to note that the reduction in staff has continued without any negative impact on the court's audit services. finally, i welcome the progress made in the context of the draft reform of the court, in terms of gender, in terms of a better geographical distribution and in the study carried out on a possible reform of the court's translation services in the interests of saving money. however, i regret that the new approach to audit involving private auditors introduced by the court risks creating over 13 000 additional hours.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge, which welcomes, in particular, the court of auditors' special report entitled 'controlling the cost of eu grants for rural development projects in line with the principle of economy'. the report notes that many shortcomings have been identified in the member states' control of the costs of rural development subsidies and regrets that the commission did not propose guidelines or disseminate good practices at the beginning of the 2007-2013 programming period and that the executive did not ensure that member states' control systems were working effectively before they started approving subsidies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the report of the committee on budgetary control which calls on parliament to give the eesc discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget. the report highlights in particular that following weaknesses identified in public procurement procedures, the eesc has set up a specific assistance service for public procurement within the eesc.
in writing. i welcome the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 (european economic and social committee). it is pleased to note that there are no significant errors in the payments relating to the implementation of the administrative expenditure of the economic and social committee. i congratulate the eesc on its progress on its utilisation rate and the significant budget reduction to eur 128.559.380 in 2014 compared to eur 130.104.400 in 2013. i regret, however, the sharp increase (14.5%) in the cost of missions and travel of staff and certain weaknesses identified by the court of auditors in 4 cases out of 15 procurement procedures. i would like gender equality in the managerial positions available to the eesc to be respected as much as possible and for each employee to receive 'ethics and integrity' training.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee (eesc) in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european economic and social committee for the financial year 2014. i am pleased to note that the court of auditors concluded, following its audit, that the overall payments for the year ended 31 december 2014 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were free from material error. i also welcome the eesc's response to the court of auditors' observations, namely the creation of a specific public procurement assistance service for directorates other than the logistics directorate, which already has such a service. for my part, i decided to support an amendment to highlight the close collaboration between the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee in developing internal rules on whistleblowers, given that these two european institutions have certain services and staff in common. i can only be pleased that these rules apply retroactively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the discharge to the committee of the regions for the implementation of the 2014 budget. the court of auditors found that no significant deficiencies were identified in the audit of the areas related to human resources and public procurement.
in writing. i fully support the european parliament's proposal for a decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 (committee of the regions). i am pleased to note that the court of auditors has not identified any specific shortcomings in the human resources and public procurement sectors of the committee of the regions. the audits carried out showed that no errors in the use of the budget occurred and that the budget implementation rate increased sharply in 2014 (98.5%). i remain concerned, however, about the significant increase in the number of reports of exceptions linked to non-compliance with the committee's internal procedural rules. as a result, several exemptions were granted. the meps and i are asking for a report with detailed information on these derogation files by the end of 2016. secondly, it would be useful, for reasons of economy, to find joint solutions between the commission, the european parliament and the committee for the common use of the premises. finally, the annual activity report should include clear and systematic data on the activity and recruitment of staff (gender balance) as well as on the committee's property policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to be given to the secretary-general of the committee of the regions in respect of the implementation of the budget of the committee of the regions for the financial year 2014. i am pleased to note that the court of auditors in its 2014 annual report notes that no significant deficiencies were identified in the audit of the human resources and procurement areas for the committee of the regions. i also note that the court has concluded that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2014 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies are, on the whole, free from material error. for my part, i decided to support an amendment to highlight the close collaboration between the committee of the regions and the committee on the european statistical system in drawing up the internal rules on whistleblowers, given that they have certain services and staff in common. i can only be pleased that these rules apply retroactively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the report of the committee on budgetary control which recommends giving discharge to the eeas for the financial year 2014. the report stresses in particular that the eeas again implemented its budget without major errors being revealed and that the overall error level for the administrative budget was estimated by the court of auditors at 0,5%.
in writing. i welcome the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 (european external action service). the european external action service has implemented its budget without major error. however, i note an increase in its budget of 1.9% compared to 2013. i regret the complexity and rigidity of the internal financial and administrative framework of the eeas. on the contrary, the flexible and efficient use of staff must be ensured. secondly, to be true to my convictions, i would like to see the gender and geographical balance within this structure improved. finally, the promulgation of the improved guidelines will strengthen the supervision of heads of delegation, the agreement signed by seas and olaf and the implementation of internal control standards.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has voted to grant discharge for the 2014 expenditure of the european external action service, which i welcome. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the directive also calls for the use of renewable energy sources to be regulated by the eu and the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the report of the committee on budgetary control which recommends that the european ombudsman be given a discharge for 2014. the court of auditors stresses that no significant deficiencies were revealed during the audit of the human resources and procurement areas for the ombudsman and that the payments are generally free from significant error.
in writing. i welcome the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 (european ombudsman). i note that no significant deficiencies were reported during the court of auditors' inquiry into the human resources and public procurement sectors. similarly, it was certified in the audits that no significant errors were made in the administrative expenditure. i would also like to emphasize the progress made in implementing the budget and in increasing the commitment of the institution's civil servants. i welcome the success of the cap 2019 strategy, which has set out new indicators and very specific targets to be achieved. on the other hand, more regular information on the progress and results of initiatives surveys should be published on a recurring basis as prescribed by the "chapter 19" strategy. finally, the information and communication policy must be strengthened, in particular by means of the more regular publication of a report on activities. some improvements could be made in the gender balance of posts to be filled and in the reduction of mission expenses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge, which, in the light of the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, in the light of the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors and on the basis of the positive report of the committee on budgetary control, gives the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to highlight the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on amendments, explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i have approved the report calling for the discharge to be given to the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors emphasised that all payments were free from significant error and that the control and monitoring systems examined for the policy group 'administrative and other expenditure' were effective.
in writing. the european parliament has approved the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ix - european data protection supervisor. a discharge i agreed to. the court of auditors concluded that all payments for the year ended 2014 for administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor were free from material error and demonstrated the effectiveness of the control and monitoring systems examined for the policy group 'administrative and other expenditure'. as regards the annual report on the implementation of the budget, the court found no serious deficiencies at the time of the audit of the human resources and procurement areas for the controller. the overall rate of budget implementation improved considerably. i welcome the use of key performance indicators to assess the efficiency of the use of resources. i am pleased to note that the appropriations allocated to missions, travel and other ancillary expenditure for members and staff remained unchanged in 2014. in addition, there has been a reduction in the budgetary items devoted to translation, publications and the activities of the controller.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge, which, in the light of the court of auditors' annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014, in the light of the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, and on the basis of the positive report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, gives the european data protection supervisor discharge in respect of the implementation of his budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on amendments, explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report of the committee on budgetary control which recommends giving discharge to the eu agencies for the implementation of their budgets for the financial year 2014 in respect of performance, financial management and control. the report stresses the need for autonomy for agencies, in particular regulatory agencies and those responsible for collecting information independently. it also stressed the need for a common approach (parliament, commission, council) on decentralised agencies, which should allow for more balanced governance, greater efficiency and accountability, and greater coherence. the report also notes that 80% of decentralised agencies have an internal fraud strategy. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected from unfair competition.
in writing. the missions of the union agencies have a direct impact on the daily lives of european citizens. they employ 6578 permanent and temporary staff and about 3200 contract or seconded staff. despite their recognised autonomy, in particular that of the regulatory agencies and those charged with collecting information independently, i would like to recall that article 54 of the common approach provides that 'all aspects of external audits carried out by external auditors shall remain the sole responsibility of the court of auditors, which shall manage all the administrative and tendering procedures required'. i very much regret that the new method of audit using private sector auditors has resulted in an 85% increase in administrative burden at a time when there is an emphasis on administrative simplification. this new audit method resulted in more than 13000 additional hours, or on average 3.5 full-time equivalents, compared to the previous audit carried out by the court of auditors. it may be appropriate to merge some smaller agencies that perform similar tasks in order to achieve efficiency gains.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted yesterday the 2014 discharge for the european agencies, which focuses, among other things, on the issues of the reliability of accounts, the legality and regularity of transactions, internal control and budget implementation. the scale of carryovers is one of the most frequently identified problems and is generally considered to be contrary to the budgetary principle of annuality. the report adopted, however, notes that these postponements are often the result of factors which are wholly or partly beyond the control of the agencies, or of the multiannual nature of operations, public procurement procedures, projects, etc.; the report adopted notes that the vast majority of agencies already share services with other agencies or institutions. the agencies have reviewed their internal administrative processes, in line with previous recommendations of parliament, and continue to seek synergies, exchange best practices and share services in order to improve the efficiency of their activities and optimise the use of their resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report adopted by the budgetary control committee which calls on the european parliament to grant discharge to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the 2014 budget. the court of auditors states that the agency's accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision granting the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 10 880 000, representing an increase of 8,80% compared to 2013. i would stress that the entire budget of the agency is drawn from the union budget; i deeply regret that no agreement could be reached on the contributions of the european free trade association member states to the agency's budget, given that the third energy package has yet to be integrated into the agreement on the european economic area; i would remind you that the headquarters agreement concluded four years ago provides for the creation of a european school. but this school has not yet been established, and this makes life difficult for families. i urge that the negotiations on this issue be concluded as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the report of the committee on budgetary control recommending discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec). the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the report also states that budget monitoring efforts resulted in an increase of 8,36% in the budget implementation rate to 97,91% for 2014.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014. the budget of the latter for the financial year 2014 was eur 4 162 874, representing an increase of 17% compared to 2013. this increase is mainly due to the incorporation of internal assigned revenue from previous years. the overall union contribution to the office's budget for 2014 was eur 3 617 948, representing an increase of 1,74% compared to 2013; i welcome the budget monitoring efforts in the financial year 2014, which resulted in a budget implementation rate of 97,91%, representing an increase of 8,36% compared to the financial year 2012. on the other hand, the execution rate of payment appropriations was 75,66%, representing a decrease of 0,92%, compared to the financial year 2013; given that the appropriations entered in the 2014 budget corresponding to the contributions of the national regulatory authorities of the efta countries have not been paid in the absence of agreements with the efta states, i ask the authority to be more cautious when establishing the forecasts for the contributions of the national regulatory authorities of the efta states;
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 financial year by the translation centre for the bodies of the union. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. they therefore requested the centre to provide the reasons for this increase.
in writing. i voted the decision granting the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the centre for the financial year 2014 was eur 56 268 041, representing an increase of 7,81% compared to 2013. i am pleased to see that the centre has created synergies through the sharing of services with other bodies. the cooperation agreement between the centre and the european railway agency (era) allows the centre to host the disaster recovery system of the era, which generates savings and ensures a higher level of safety than both bodies. i also welcome the implementation by the centre of a common pre-processing approach for community trade marks with the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) with the aim of sharing translation memories and harmonising respective workflows.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ following the report approved by the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget of the centre for vocational development and training. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. the european parliament has approved the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014, which is a project i fully support. according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014 decreased by 3,62% compared to 2013. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances as well as reliable annual accounts of the centre and legal and regular underlying transactions. following the 2013 discharge, the centre took measures to address the court's observations and recommendations of the previous year. the budget monitoring efforts in the financial year 2014 resulted in a budget implementation rate of 98,93%, the same as in 2013. it was also found that the execution rate of payment appropriations was up by 3,29% compared to 2013. the implementation of a policy on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest was established in october 2014 by the centre's management board, as well as regular training sessions. finally, i welcome the anti-fraud strategy ordered by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014, following the vote in the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the discharge to be given to the european aviation safety agency in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the discharge to be given to the european asylum support office for the implementation of the 2014 budget. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. they therefore call on the agency to make greater efforts, improve its budgetary management and present an action plan to achieve the best possible results in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the report of the committee on budgetary control recommending discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. this is obviously a very important market surveillance structure to anticipate the drift that led to the banking and financial crisis of 2008.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ following the report approved by the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of granting discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
in writing. i have approved the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014. according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 increased by 3,72% compared to the previous year. the court of auditors stated in its report on the annual accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 that it had obtained reasonable assurances and that the annual accounts of the centre for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the commission has also received a letter from the president of the council, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the commission, the president of the european parliament, the president of the european parliament, the president of the council, the president of the european commission, the president of the president of the european parliament, the president of the president of the european parliament, the president of the european parliament, the president of the president of the commission, the president of the president of the european parliament, the president of the president of the european parliament, budget monitoring efforts during the year resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 98,77%, an increase of 5,81% compared to the previous year. improvements were made in the planning and budget execution of operational meetings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's nuclear safety is not compromised by the use of nuclear weapons.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on the amendments, which were explained during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i approved the report of the committee on budgetary control which called for the discharge to be given to the european environment agency for the implementation of the 2014 budget. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission has also proposed to amend the rules on the protection of personal data by the member states in order to ensure that the protection of personal data is not compromised by the use of the internet.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i approved the report of the committee on budgetary control which recommended that discharge be given to the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the discharge to be given to the european food safety authority in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the authority's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. they further note that in order to be able to collaborate with the best academics in the sector and to have the most effective conflict of interest policy possible, the authority uses an expert interest assessment system which analyses the role of each expert and the mission of the working group or scientific group of which the expert would be a member, based on a number of criteria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i approved the report of the committee on budgetary control which called for the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget to be given to the european institute for gender equality. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the institute's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. i have approved the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014. according to the financial statements of the european institute for gender equality, the final budget of the institute for the financial year 2014 decreased by 3,08% compared to 2013. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of the institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014, stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances that the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the total volume of committed appropriations carried over decreased from 32% in 2012 to 27% in 2014. in addition, only 1,76 per cent of the 2013 deferrals were cancelled. with regard to the prevention and management of conflicts of interest and transparency, the institute should verify the accuracy of declarations of conflicts of interest by its members, staff and experts. i also ask him to publish the resulting report as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2014 of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on the amendments and explanations during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ following the report of the committee on budgetary control, i have approved the discharge to the eit for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency as regards the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. in the case of the eit, it is also noted that the comments concern the financial contributions granted to the beneficiaries of its grants, which cannot exceed the ceiling of 25% of the total amount of the beneficiary's expenditure. after obtaining audit certificates from the beneficiaries of the eit grants, the court of auditors and the eit confirmed that the ceiling had been respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations, as well as during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the discharge to the european medicines agency, in accordance with the report adopted by the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. it defined the concepts of direct and indirect interest and ordered all experts to declare any direct or indirect interest in their annual declarations of interest. the restrictions on experts in matters of direct or indirect interest are applied according to their fields of activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on amendments, explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for 2014, following the report of the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision granting the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction discharge in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the european observatory for the financial year 2014 was eur 15 675 036, representing a decrease of 3,88% compared to 2013. it should be noted that 93.4% of the observatory's budget comes from the union budget. there are indications that the annual accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction present a true and fair view of the financial position of the centre as at 31 december 2014 and that its transactions are legal and regular. finally, i call on the observatory to adopt binding rules for the protection of whistleblowers as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts both in relation to amendments and explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ as suggested by the report of the committee on budgetary control, i have approved the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european maritime safety agency. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. meps also stressed that the agency should be provided with the financial, material and human resources it needs to carry out its tasks, including when it carries out activities outside its mandate, such as providing expertise, operational support and staff in the context of managing the refugee crisis in the application of international and eu law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts both on amendments and explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ as suggested by the report of the committee on budgetary control, i have approved the discharge for the 2014 budget for the european maritime safety agency. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. meps also stressed that the agency should be provided with the financial, material and human resources it needs to carry out its tasks, including when it carries out activities outside its mandate, such as providing expertise, operational support and staff in the context of managing the refugee crisis in the application of international and eu law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts both in relation to amendments and explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ following the report of the committee on budgetary control, i have approved the discharge for the 2014 budget of the european railway agency. the court of auditors considers that it has received reasonable assurance that the office's annual accounts for 2014 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts both in relation to amendments and explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the discharge for the financial year 2014 for the european financial markets authority, following the report approved by the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report also stresses the need to apply the same treatment to parliament as to the member states in the matter of the transmission of documents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts both in relation to amendments and explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ following the report of the committee on budgetary control, i have approved the discharge for the european training foundation for the financial year 2014. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report also highlights the importance of the implementation of the foundation's work in the context of the migration crisis.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision granting the director of the european training foundation discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014 was eur 20 158 053, representing an increase of 0,07 % compared to 2013. i would like to emphasize that the entire budget of the foundation comes from the union budget. i commend the foundation for its effectiveness in meeting its three strategic objectives, which were to strengthen evidence-based analysis of vocational education and training (vet) policies, to modernise vet systems with a lifelong learning perspective, and to increase the relevance of vet provision to the labour market and economic and social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations, as well as during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to eu lisa for the financial year 2014 in accordance with the report approved in the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision giving discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 59 380 000, representing a decrease of 3,2% compared to the financial year 2013. i would point out that the entire budget of the agency is drawn from the union budget. i regret the lack of reliable and complete information on the total cost of implementing the sis ii, vis and eurodac computer systems. the sis ii cost eight times the estimated cost and was delivered six years late. it is therefore necessary that eu-lisa, with the assistance of the commission, provide us with a full report on the total cost of implementing these systems and developing their it applications. i am pleased to see that two headquarters agreements have been signed respectively between the agency and france for the agency's operational site in strasbourg, and between the agency and estonia. the latter agreement entered into force in march 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. in the case of eu-lisa, the comments mainly concerned the estimated value of the sis ii, vis and eurodac systems, the amount of which was recorded in the accounts of the agency corresponding to their net book value according to the internal accounting rules of the commission at the time of the establishment of the agency. no action by the agency was necessary and the agency could not have done anything to address the problem, which will lose all meaning in 2015 due to the annual depreciation of assets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to highlight the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on amendments, explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014 in accordance with the report approved by the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report also welcomes the positive signals recorded regarding the agency's performance in the priority areas during the first year of the 2014-2020 strategy.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision granting the director of the european agency for safety and health at work discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 17 256 026, representing a decrease of 1,17% compared to 2013. in addition, the union contribution to the agency's budget for the financial year 2014 was eur 14 987 210, representing a decrease of 4,02% compared to 2013. it should be noted that 2014 was the first year of the agency's new multiannual strategic programme for the period 2014-2020. therefore, the positive results achieved in the priority areas defined by this programme, namely the management tools for occupational safety and health, awareness raising, networking of knowledge, etc., can only be welcomed. i also welcome the work of the agency for its efforts in the campaign for healthy and sustainable workplaces to strengthen risk prevention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts both in relation to amendments and explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to euratom for the financial year 2014, following the report approved by the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report also notes that the agency has an appropriate risk management and control strategy and has taken all necessary risk assessment and mitigation measures to align its internal control system with the requirements of the court.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to highlight the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on amendments, explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014, following the report approved by the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report also highlights that the foundation has remained a key player in policy-making and that the use of its expertise in key eu policy documents has remained significant.
in writing. i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014. the budget of the foundation for the financial year 2014 was eur 20 774 000, representing an increase of 0,73% compared to 2013. i congratulate the foundation on the successful implementation of its four-year work programme and welcome the work it has carried out in the three european surveys on quality of life, working conditions and enterprises. it is essential that the foundation focus its research on youth unemployment and social cohesion. its contribution to the assessment of the impact of the crisis on living and working conditions is a source of education and reflection, indispensable to the political debate. the same is true of three crucial reports it has completed on: 'psychosocial risks in europe', 'labour mobility in the eu: recent trends and policies' and 'social cohesion and well-being in the eu'. i would also like to welcome the constructive cooperation between the foundation and the committee on employment and social affairs. his expertise fuels the political debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts both in relation to amendments and explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to eurojust for the financial year 2014, following the report approved by the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that eurojust's annual accounts for 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular.
in writing. the european parliament has approved the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the strengthening of european cooperation for the financial year 2014. i have been in favour of this project, although progress still needs to be made. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances and also added that eurojust's annual accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the budget monitoring efforts in the financial year 2014 resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99,82%, an increase of 0,21% compared to 2013, and an overall level of commitment of appropriations of 99%. however, the rate of implementation of payment appropriations fell by 2.34% compared with the previous year and should therefore be improved. as regards the 2015 budget, a reduction in the number of budget lines has been established in order to reduce weaknesses in budget planning and implementation. it is also important to mention that eurojust intends to evaluate the use of the decoupled appropriations to guarantee the financing of its operational activities. i also think it is necessary to point out that eurojust has yet to adopt internal rules to ensure the protection of whistleblowers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts both in relation to amendments and explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting europol discharge for the 2014 financial year, following the report approved by the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report also calls for the european parliament to be given the right to vote on the proposals for the future of the eu.
in writing. the european parliament has approved the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2014. i also signed the agreement. according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european office for the financial year 2014 is down by 2,20% compared to 2013. the budget monitoring efforts during the financial year 2014 have been significantly intensified and resulted in a high budget implementation rate of 99,70%, which shows that the commitments were made in a timely manner. the rate of implementation of payment appropriations was 93%, an increase of 2.80% compared with the previous year. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is consistent with the union's macro-financial assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014 in accordance with the report adopted by the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular.
in writing. i supported the decision on discharge in respect of the accounts of the eu agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014. the budget monitoring efforts resulted in a budget implementation rate of 100%. the commitments were implemented in a timely manner. the quality of the offers was improved by the introduction of prudential supervision. the agency also committed itself to adopting harmonised rules for the prevention of conflicts of interest within its management board and scientific committee and to increasing the awareness of its staff of the conflict of interest policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting the discharge to frontex for the financial year 2014 in accordance with the report adopted by the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. the report notes with concern the high and constantly increasing number of grant agreements and the scale of the related expenditure to be verified and reimbursed by the agency.
in writing. ‒ the n-va cannot give the green light for the discharge of individual parts of the european budget before the full accounts have been approved by the european court of auditors.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for implementation of the budget for the management of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). however, i would like to stress the importance of a global headquarters agreement between frontex and poland as soon as possible. such an agreement would not only improve the conditions for good functioning but also increase the transparency of the conditions under which the agency and its staff have been working for more than 11 years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on the amendments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of granting discharge to the gnss agency for the financial year 2014 in accordance with the report adopted by the committee on budgetary control. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for 2014 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the gnss agency for the financial year 2014. the final budget of the agency for the financial year 2014 was eur 25 369 058, an increase of 81,55% compared to 2013. i welcome the efforts it has made to reduce the level of deferrals by committing the budget earlier in the year when possible and thus allowing for advance payments. i support the agency's initiative to develop a new budget management instrument to support the implementation and monitoring of the main budget and the budget under delegated management in order to improve the management of commitment and payment appropriations. i commend the agency for organising an open day in prague to promote its work and to improve its visibility. it is essential to bring europe closer to the citizen through conferences, exhibitions open to the general public, etc., on a regular basis and in collaboration with the commission, so that citizens feel that the european union puts the human being at the centre of its concerns.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge 2014 (which follows the presentation of the report of the european court of auditors for the financial year 2014), in particular because the court of auditors had issued an unreserved (i.e. positive) opinion for this agency on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it should be noted that the court of auditors stressed that overall, for the 32 eu agencies, it had identified fewer problems in the agencies than in previous years and that, therefore, its reports contained fewer observations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations, as well as during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i approved this report by the committee on budgetary control, which asked for the postponement of the discharge for the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 concerning the 'artemis' strand. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption, and calls for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and corruption.
in writing. i have decided to support the decision to postpone the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the artemis joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to establish and implement a research programme for the development of key technologies for information systems in order to enhance the union's competitiveness and sustainable development and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications. the maximum contribution from the union to the joint undertaking shall be eur 420 000 000, to be drawn from the budget of the seventh framework programme for research. i can only support the court of auditors in finding that the joint undertaking did not assess the quality of the audit reports submitted by the national funding authorities with regard to the costs of completed projects and that it was not possible to establish whether the ex post audits were functioning effectively after the evaluation of the audit strategies of the three national funding authorities. in view of these considerations, i support the commission's reservation that there is no information necessary for the calculation of a weighted error rate or an error rate.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, the european parliament decided to postpone its decision on the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget for three joint undertakings, including the artemis joint undertaking, which aims to implement a research programme for the development of key technologies for information systems. the joint undertaking is criticised for not having assessed the quality of the audit reports submitted by the national funding authorities with regard to the costs of the completed projects. the european parliament further notes that after evaluating the audit strategies of the three national funding authorities, it was not possible to establish whether the ex post audits are functioning effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations, as well as during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i approved this report by the committee on budgetary control which asked for discharge to be given to the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the report welcomes the publication by the joint undertaking of the report on the socio-economic impact of the activities of the clean sky joint undertaking and the signing with the sesar joint undertaking to consolidate the links and enhance synergies.
in writing. i have decided to support the decision giving the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the clean sky joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014. in order to conclude the research activities of the seventh framework programme, council regulation (eu) no 558/2014 replaced the clean sky joint undertaking with the clean sky 2 joint undertaking as from 27 june 2014 and extended the duration of the joint undertaking until 31 december 2024. the maximum contribution from the european union to the clean sky joint undertaking shall be eur 800 000 000 to be charged to the budget of the seventh framework programme and to the clean sky 2 joint undertaking shall be eur 1 755 000 000 to be charged to the budget of the horizon 2020 programme. according to the court's report, the legal framework of the horizon 2020 programme requires specific monitoring of research results, based on quantitative and, where appropriate, qualitative evidence. therefore, cooperation between the joint undertaking and the commission should be strengthened in order to improve the communication and dissemination of research results.
in writing. ‒ this vote approves the 2014 discharge for clean sky, a joint eu technology initiative to develop innovations for cleaner airspace. clean sky was launched in 2008 and is the largest aviation project ever launched in europe. it takes the form of a first-of-its-kind public-private partnership between the commission and the private sector, which is intended to enable the eu to invent the technologies of tomorrow to increase the environmental performance of air transport and thus reduce noise pollution and energy consumption, and bring the union closer to the environmental objectives of the single european sky project. the european discharge is an annual ritual in which parliament acts as the guardian of the accounts to check that european appropriations have been spent in accordance with the rules. it is the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, which is a mandatory step for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations. the four political institutions - parliament, commission, council and european council - are involved, as are nearly 50 european agencies and institutes. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge, which, in the light of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, in the light of the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors, and in the light of the positive report of the committee on budgetary control, gives the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the clean sky joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations, as well as during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i approved this report by the committee on budgetary control which called for the discharge to be given to the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the latter has since 7 june 2014 taken over the activities of the eniac and artemis joint undertakings, with a view to implementing the joint technology initiative on electronic components and systems for european leadership. while progress has been made by the joint undertaking in monitoring and reporting, further efforts are still needed to ensure close collaboration with the commission to meet the requirements of horizon 2020 and to better contribute to the dissemination of the results of the 7th framework programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge, which, having regard to the final annual accounts of the ecsel joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the ecsel joint undertaking for the period from 27 june 2014 to 31 december 2014 and the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors, gives the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work done by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations, as well as during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i approved this report by the committee on budgetary control which called for the postponement of the discharge to the ecsel joint undertaking for the eniac strand for the financial year 2014.
in writing. eniac aims to develop and implement a research programme for the development of key competences for nanoelectronics in different fields. this year we have postponed the discharge again because of various irregularities noted by the court of auditors. the commission expressed for the fourth consecutive year a reservation on the 'lawfulness and regularity of the underlying transactions'.
in writing. ‒ parliament undertook this afternoon the ritual of the european discharge, by which it checks that european appropriations have been spent in accordance with the rules. in a sense, the european parliament is the accounting officer and the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, which is a requirement for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations. the four political institutions - parliament, commission, council and european council - are involved, as are nearly 50 executive agencies and european institutes. among them is the eniac joint undertaking, which was established in 2008 to implement the european joint technology initiative for the development of nanotechnologies. eniac is the result of the commission's desire to propose for the first time at european level public-private partnerships involving industry, researchers and public authorities to coordinate ambitious common research objectives. eniac is an important example of useful and effective european cooperation, which parliament hopes will be used more and more widely.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, the european parliament decided to postpone its decision on the discharge for the implementation of the 2014 budget for three joint undertakings, including the eniac joint undertaking, which aims to implement a research programme for the development of key competences for nanoelectronics. the complaint is that the joint undertaking did not assess the quality of the audit reports submitted by the national funding authorities as regards the costs of the completed projects. the ep also notes that after evaluating the audit strategies of the three national funding authorities, it was not possible to establish whether the ex post audits are working effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts both in relation to amendments and explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i approved this report by the committee on budgetary control which called for the discharge to be given to the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the joint undertaking was established in may 2008 as a public-private partnership until 31 december 2017. it focuses on the development of commercial applications to facilitate new industrial efforts to foster rapid deployment of fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. the commission has also decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the joint undertaking on the renewal of the fch joint undertaking. the maximum contribution from the union to the fch joint undertaking shall be eur 470 000 000 and to the fch joint undertaking 2 shall be eur 665 000 000, to be charged to the budget allocated to the seventh framework programme and to horizon 2020. i welcome the transparency effort made by the joint undertaking by publishing the programme review report annually since 2011 and by publishing the report on the socio-economic impact of the activities of the pch joint undertaking. it was also essential to redefine the visual identity and redesign the website to improve brand image and visibility.
in writing. ‒ this vote approves the 2014 discharge of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking, a joint eu technology initiative to accelerate the development of fuel cells in europe and allow them to be commercialized as quickly as possible. the company was set up in 2008 as a public-private partnership, with research, technological development and demonstration activities. it encourages the development of electricity generators that efficiently convert chemical energy into electrical energy by a reaction between the fuel (hydrogen in most cases) and oxygen in the air. the stakes are high: hydrogen could reduce the total oil consumption of road transport by 40% by 2050 and thus bring the union closer to its environmental objectives. at the annual european discharge ceremony, parliament took on the role of 'commissioner in charge' to verify that the european appropriations made available to the joint undertaking had been spent in accordance with the rules. parliament commended the commission for its sound financial management, regular ex-post audits and efforts to be transparent with the european authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge, which, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors for the financial year 2014, and having regard to the positive report of the committee on budgetary control, gives the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking 2 discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to highlight the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on amendments, explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i approved this report by the committee on budgetary control which called for the joint undertaking for innovative medicines initiative 2 to be given discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. the joint undertaking, set up in december 2007, aims to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process so that in the long term the pharmaceutical industry can produce safer and more effective innovative medicines.
in writing. ‒ this vote approves the discharge for 2014 of the innovative medicines initiative 2 (imi2) joint undertaking, a community technology initiative to bridge the gap between europe and its competitors in this field. founded in 2007 as a public-private partnership between the eu and the european federation of pharmaceutical industry associations, imi2 coordinates more than a dozen projects to better understand health problems - such as diabetes, pain and psychiatric disorders - and to help improve drug safety. it also improves the training of researchers and clinicians involved in drug development. at this annual ritual of european discharge, parliament audited the accounts of imi2 as well as those of almost 50 other european agencies and institutes. while acknowledging the good management of the funds allocated and commending the imi2 for its willingness to be transparent on conflicts of interest for its scientific and management boards, parliament encouraged it to be more precise on the state of progress of its projects and in planning its future activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge, which, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the innovative medicines initiative joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors and on the basis of the report of the committee on budgetary control, gives the executive director of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (formerly the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines) discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts both in relation to amendments and explanations and during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i approved the report of the budgetary control committee which called for the postponement of the discharge to the iter joint undertaking.
in writing. the european parliament voted overwhelmingly (594 votes) to reject the budgetary discharge for the iter fusion project because of the cost overruns and delays in the implementation of the project by the agency. it is clear that the european budget for iter is substantial, amounting to almost eur 3 billion for the period 2014-2020. there's obviously a management problem to be solved. in practice, this negative vote means that the commission and the agency will have to reply to parliament's questions within six months in order to allow the parliamentarians to take a final decision at the end of the year.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, the european parliament decided to postpone its decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the 2014 budget for three joint undertakings, including iter (development of fusion energy). the european parliament considers that the substantial increase in the project costs 'could threaten the existence of other programmes also financed by the eu budget and could be contrary to the principle of cost-effectiveness'. it also urged the new director-general of the iter organisation to publicly present his new iter action plan and expected him to 'clearly avoid any delay or additional cost for the iter project'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i approved the report of the committee on budgetary control which called for the discharge to be given to the sesar joint undertaking for the 2014 budget.
in writing. ‒ as every year, the parliament has embarked on the european discharge ritual. in practice, following the recommendations of the committee on budgetary control, the task is to verify that european appropriations have been spent in accordance with the rules. in a sense, the european parliament is the accounting officer and the only authority that can grant, postpone or refuse discharge, which is a requirement for the formal closure of the accounts of all european organisations. the four political institutions - parliament, commission, council and european council - are involved, as are nearly 50 executive agencies and european institutes. among them is the sesar joint undertaking, which was established in 2007 to be the technological pillar of the eu's single sky programme to harmonise and modernise air traffic management in europe. the differences between countries in this area are estimated to cost €4 billion annually and cause several million minutes of flight delays, which is unnecessary fuel consumption that could be avoided. thanks to sesar, the environmental impact per flight is being reduced by 2.8%, the risk of accidents by 40% and the capacity of the european sky increased by 27%.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this discharge, which, on the basis of the court of auditors' report on the annual accounts of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014, having regard to the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the court of auditors and having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, gives the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge and would like to underline the important and high-quality work carried out by the s&d experts on amendments and explanations during the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the eib's investment programme is directly linked to supporting the political objectives of the european union. in view of the current economic situation, the european union decided in september 2014 to launch an investment plan. in this context, it is essential that the eib prioritises investments that accelerate recovery and increase productivity while encouraging youth employment, innovation and smes! other aspects need to be considered, such as improving environmental sustainability and action to combat climate change. these projects must therefore comply with specific environmental standards.
in writing. the economy will only do well if there are investments. the european investment bank plays a major role in this respect, particularly in guaranteeing medium- and long-term investment. the eib plays a key role in european integration and is responsible for ensuring social, economic and territorial cohesion. but to do so, the eib's investment programme must be based on the political objectives of the european union. as the report points out, the eib's priorities should include recovery, productivity growth, employment, innovation and sustainable development. in 2014, the eib financed 285 000 small and medium-sized enterprises, safeguarding 3.6 million jobs. that's a great thing, but it's just a first step. the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), which emerged from the juncker plan, must now reach its cruise speed in order to operate efficiently, transparently and fairly.
in writing. ‒ this vote follows an agreement with the european investment bank (eib) which demonstrates very good interinstitutional cooperation and will allow parliamentary scrutiny of the work of the european union bank. the eib is the world's largest multilateral institution in terms of lending volume. its investors are the member states whose interests it represents. it plays a leading role in the implementation of european policies and in particular the juncker plan for investment and growth in europe. in 2014, the eib financed 285 000 small and medium-sized enterprises, safeguarding 3.6 million jobs, and signed contracts for a total of 413 projects worth €69 billion in the eu where it concentrates 90% of its activity. the eib is central to the recovery of the european economy, which justifies the possibility of external regulatory oversight by meps. the latter will be able to request details of the results achieved through the various eib financial instruments and receive replies from the president within pre-established deadlines, as is already the case with the european central bank.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european investment bank, which makes a number of recommendations to improve its functioning. i believe that this institution of the european union is of major importance because it contributes to the achievement of the union's policy objectives by supporting sound and sustainable investment projects. the report stresses in particular the importance of prioritising investments that accelerate recovery and increase productivity, of encouraging youth employment, innovation and smes, of improving environmental sustainability and action to combat climate change, of promoting economic and social cohesion and convergence, etc. it also makes a number of recommendations to strengthen the eib's governance, transparency and control framework. i am convinced that this report and the recommendations it contains can add value to the eib's operations and i have decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ as the european union's bank, the eib's core activity is to contribute financially to projects in the union's interest which contribute to the balanced development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion, and thus to the strengthening of european integration and employment, making it an extremely important player in boosting the union's competitiveness. in its text, parliament called on the eib to step up its technical support at the pre-approval stage for member states with a lower rate of project approval and encouraged the eib to facilitate exchanges of good practice between member states with regard to successful project development. in addition, the bank is invited to focus on investments in the real economy with a view to stimulating employment and growth in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which deplores the lack of respect for international humanitarian law. indeed, in many conflicts, the protagonists no longer respect international standards that prohibit and condemn attacks on hospitals and schools. this statement reaffirms the interests of these rules.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted in favour of this resolution. it condemns the attacks on civilian institutions such as hospitals and schools. these attacks are prohibited by international humanitarian law (ihr). such acts may also constitute grave breaches of the 1949 geneva convention and may be considered war crimes under the rome statute of the international criminal court. the n-va therefore supports european and international initiatives to combat them. it also supports the call on the eu high representative to take the initiative of an arms embargo against the countries responsible for these violations of the ihr. the nva, however, believes that humanitarian aid must be linked to political, economic and security considerations.
in writing. i condemn in the strongest terms the attacks on hospitals, medical centres, clinics, schools and, beyond that, all civilian infrastructure, which are all flagrant violations of the geneva conventions and international humanitarian law and therefore constitute war crimes. there is no justification for killing civilians who have a right to medical care. similarly, humanitarian organizations must be protected. there can be no impunity. in december 2015, un security council resolution 2254, adopted unanimously, called for an immediate cessation of all attacks against civilian targets and hospitals. i hope very much that the appeals of the un secretary-general, mr ban ki-moon, will be heard and supported at the first humanitarian summit in istanbul in may.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply shocked when attacks on hospitals and schools are carried out in the context of armed conflicts. these attacks are contrary to international humanitarian law, as i have already said in the resolution i adopted on this subject in the european parliament's plenary session. in less than a month, the world humanitarian summit will be held in istanbul. the european parliament sees the summit as an opportunity to reorganise the international humanitarian system to adapt it to new challenges and make it more efficient. it is also essential that the principle of the inviolability of international humanitarian law be loudly reaffirmed at this summit. we cannot tolerate serious violations of humanitarian law by certain countries, whether eu partners or not. in view of these factors, as well as the other proposals and comments made in this resolution, i did not hesitate for a second to support this text.
in writing. ‒ the international community has witnessed a series of heinous attacks on hospitals and schools in situations of armed conflict around the world in recent years, as evidenced by the recent attacks on doctors without borders (msf) health centres in kunduz, afghanistan on 3 october 2015, razah, yemen on 10 january 2016, and in a number of syrian cities during the ongoing conflict. we condemn the attacks on hospitals and schools, which are prohibited by international law, and recognize that such acts may constitute grave violations of the 1949 geneva conventions and war crimes under the rome statute of the icc. we are convinced that the preservation of health and educational facilities as neutral and protected spaces in the context of armed conflict must be guaranteed by means of transparent, independent and impartial investigations into the brutal attacks that have occurred and by the effective enforcement of the obligation for all parties involved who have committed crimes to answer for their acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which calls for more transparency of legislative documents and better public access to what is done in the various institutions.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this resolution on public access to documents for the period 2014-2015. the resolution recalls that the right of access to documents is enshrined in the charter and the treaties and cannot be dissociated from good governance, which is also enshrined in european texts. in this regard, the union should continue its work on accessibility of documents, in particular by making online access to documents easier and by harmonising the different search portals of its websites. this increased accessibility must be accompanied by a greater dissemination of the union's policies. to this end, new technologies such as social networks have extraordinary potential to bring the union's action closer to citizens. now we must exploit it.
in writing. ‒ the ferrara report on public access to documents for 2014-2015, which our parliament will be voting on at this session, is of paramount importance to me, as i remain convinced that our european institutions must be as transparent as possible towards our european citizens. the report calls in particular for the negotiation of international agreements to be transparent throughout the process and for the institutions to publish the negotiating mandate given to the union negotiator in this context. these two elements seem to me to be essential in order to give citizens the opportunity to assess the challenges, progress and, above all, the impact of such agreements. the draft report also calls on the commission to submit a proposal to protect whistleblowers. i would ask the members of this house to vote in favour of this passage in the report. our parliament must be ambitious in this respect so that whistleblowers can receive the necessary and sufficient protection.
in writing. - i voted for the text. however, i note that many of the recommendations in the resolution on public access to documents for 2011-2013 have not been followed up adequately by the three institutions. i particularly regret that each institution or body of the european union has not appointed a transparency officer from its own management to ensure that the rules are respected. the institutions should follow these recommendations as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the issue of domestic workers and domestic helpers is above all a question of respect for the dignity of persons and in this case of women. it is true that this report suggests measures to protect women, and when we speak of workers we mean women workers, but it goes without saying that the measures proposed here should apply to all workers in these sectors, since dignity is not a privilege linked to sex, even though in most cases it is perhaps women who are deprived of it most severely.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the kuneva report on women domestic workers, domestic helpers and childcare workers in the european union, which aims to better protect these workers, has been adopted by the european parliament. i am particularly pleased that i was able, as a fictitious rapporteur, to negotiate the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. it is urgent that all the member states of the european union ratify and apply convention 189 of the international labour organization in order to improve the working conditions of people in the sector. it is unacceptable that many workers in this sector are still forced to work underground, with the consequent loss of social rights. in this report, the european parliament also calls for a directive on carers' leave and a framework for the recognition of the status of non-professional carers and childcare workers. it also calls on member states to include domestic workers, domestic helpers and child-care workers in all national legislation on labour, health care, etc. the ball is now in the court of the commission and the member states.
in writing. ‒ the n-va stands for an inclusive society with equal rights and obligations for all, and for a policy of equal opportunities tailored to and taking account of all the various target groups. this applies to all genders and particularly to women. we cannot accept any violation of this equality, whether at work or in private life. this report contains many good elements. it is important, for example, to combat undeclared work, a phenomenon which affects domestic workers severely. the n-va also supports the content of ilo convention no 189, which provides, inter alia, for effective and accessible complaint mechanisms and tools to ensure compliance with national laws and regulations on the protection of domestic workers. unfortunately, the report is at odds with the principle of subsidiarity and some paragraphs go too far in granting rights to domestic workers and carers outside a contractual employment relationship (e.g. au pairs). the nva delegation therefore abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text as a member of the committee on gender equality. i believe that there should be a common recognition at union level of the profession and the value of domestic and care work as a form of professional activity in its own right, since the recognition of this professional sector is likely to reduce undeclared work and promote social integration, and therefore calls on the european union and the member states to establish common standards for domestic and care work.
in writing. ‒ this economic sector creates thousands of jobs every year, so the union should promote the integration of women in this sector by raising awareness of the challenges and opportunities of digital technology. similarly, the union should establish special grants to help women become familiar with computer tools and thus become more competitive. however, the internet can be a double-edged sword as it can foster the development of deviant behaviour related to the commodification of the female body, from pornography to prostitution. such online content may also skew young people's perceptions of gender.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on gender equality and women's empowerment in the digital age. the european parliament's conclusion on this issue is that the digital revolution benefits men more than women. if we look at the figures for the ict sector, we see that only 30% of the workforce are women. in addition, women often hold jobs that are less well-paid and less skilled than men. in order to remedy this problem, parliament called on the member states to draw up multiannual action plans and to put an end to the pay gap between men and women, preferably by means of legislation. another proposal made by the european parliament in this resolution is the introduction of a right to disconnect when the conventional working time is exceeded. while it is true that the development of digital technology makes it possible to develop systems to better balance work and private life, the risk of the development of unstable forms of work is real and must be taken into account.
in writing. ‒ the n-va stands for an inclusive society with equal rights and obligations for all, and for a policy of equal opportunities tailored to and taking account of all the various target groups. we cannot accept any violation of this equality, whether at work or in private life. ict skills are essential today, both for personal development and for the competitiveness of the european economy. the n-va believes that the opportunities for women including women with disabilities in this sector should be strengthened. we also fully support the prosecution of homophobic and transphobic crimes via the internet. the report is concerned with the fact that it seems to be at times contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. the nva considers this principle to be fundamental and policy must always be conducted at the appropriate level. the n-va meps therefore abstained from the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the information society, together with information and communication technologies, can serve as a springboard for women's empowerment and gender equality. but i regret that at present women are underrepresented in the ict sector. it is therefore necessary to remedy this situation. to do this, it is essential to orient the digital single market strategy in this direction, and to insist that the next gender equality strategy proposes specific measures to support women's integration and participation in the information society and to actively promote women's networks online. i am thinking in particular of education, promoting digital culture and the education of women and girls in the field of ict through the integration of new technologies into the curricula at all levels; lifelong learning, with particular attention to women aged 50 and over, with a view to protecting them against exclusion from the labour market; the project will be implemented in the framework of the european union's action plan on gender equality, which will be presented in the context of the european commission's 'women and the digital world' initiative.
i want to make a plea today for a critical but realistic view of the nordstream 2 project. gas will be an important fuel in the energy transition towards greener and more sustainable energy sources. gas is less polluting than, say, coal or lignite and it is also complementary to renewable energy to help offset the downturns. gas is also increasingly used for heating in homes and businesses. in other words, there is a growing demand for gas and nordstream 2 can meet a large part of that demand. however, this should not be an excuse for some large energy players to abuse their market position. it is also very important that the energy union continues to look for alternative sources of different origins. i therefore call on the commission to ensure that the competition rules are respected in the context of this project. in addition, member states should also be encouraged to diversify their energy suppliers.
mr president, 23 million european citizens are currently unemployed and 76 million have little or no qualifications. behind these numbers are human tragedies. our social model is shaking, and we must prevent it from shaking. the european quality framework for apprenticeships, drawn up by the european trade union confederation, attests to this: long-term alternance training with enhanced mobility is a royal road to employment. learning must be shaped according to the specific needs and skills expected on the labour market. the social partners, training bodies and public authorities must work together to achieve this. if future european initiatives, such as the agenda for new skills for europe, can attract learners to general studies and also to vocational training, socioeconomic success will be the key. the european union needs political projects and positive projects, so let us take up this challenge and meet it in a concrete way!
in writing. i co-signed and of course approved this joint resolution which stresses that china is not a market economy and therefore calls on the commission to oppose and to oppose any unilateral decision to grant china market economy status. the resolution also calls on the commission to take due account of the concerns expressed by the industrial sector, trade unions and other stakeholders in the union regarding the impact on employment, the environment, standards and sustainable economic growth in the union. the commission also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. this joint resolution is an important first step, but we must now ensure that political pressure on the commission and the council is maintained and intensified. this is the case for thousands of jobs in the union.
our economy is growing, but still too slowly, leaving too many young people in many regions out of the boat. it's got to be different. the key to the credibility of the european integration project lies with the young. a good job gives young people self-esteem and hope. the eu can and must make a difference here. this can be achieved, inter alia, by increasing intra-european labour mobility. in my region of west flanders, for example, companies are crying out for qualified staff. less than 25 miles away in northern france, an army of young people are out of work. this is not possible. by making these young people more mobile, we can offer them opportunities across borders. we need to make them physically familiar with the labour markets of other member states, for example by making erasmus+ more work-oriented. at the same time, vacancies should be exchanged digitally, efficiently and with up-to-date information through projects such as eures. my second priority is to further develop the youth guarantee scheme. we must not focus on activation alone, but must focus more on the transition from education to the labour market. the flemish approach to combining welfare, education, work and enterprise is bearing fruit and can be adopted by the eu as a tried and tested method. my generation will need strong skills to fill the many jobs that will be created by europe's ageing population. the solution i can summarize simply: the european commission has launched a new initiative to promote the development of skills, digitisation of information and mobility in the labour market.
madam president, there are some positive signs, but the reality is still brutal: more than one in five young people are unemployed, one in five have no prospects and no future. it's a generation that we're sacrificing. we cannot accept it and must rise to the challenge. tools exist, such as the youth employment initiative, which must be sustained and funded at least until 2020. we have to fight against exclusion and failure. every young person who leaves school without a qualification and without a certificate is a mozart that is murdered. we must set up a real european apprenticeship system, like erasmus, but with vocational training. they're systems that work and they work. we must implement them and, finally, if we are to meet this challenge, we must put the fight against youth unemployment at the top of european social policy. this is a worthwhile issue.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this proposal, which is limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in substance.
in writing. i welcome the proposal of the european parliament and the council on the defence of subsidised imports from non-eu countries. the purpose of this regulation is to codify the existing texts (regulation (ec) no 597/2009) without changing their content, but by making the few formal amendments required by the codification and simplification act itself. the original 2009 council regulation on this subject has undergone many important amendments. in line with the commission's instructions on the importance of codification in 1987, the interinstitutional agreement on the expedited procedure for codified acts in 1994 and in order to clarify union law and make it more accessible to our fellow citizens, it is therefore essential to draw up a clear regulation which would replace the many others already in existence. in addition to the codification of existing texts, one of the objectives of this proposal is to incorporate into eu law the rules contained in the wto-approved 'subsidies agreement'. the conditions for granting a subsidy are set out in detail, as are the principles governing the imposition of countervailing duties and the way in which they are calculated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because, in the light of the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council (com (2014) 0667), and on the basis of the report of the committee on legal affairs (a8-0256/2015), it is considered that, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance, and therefore instructs its president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission as well as to the national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ considering that, in the opinion of the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance, the european parliament has validated the text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the proposal is a simplified codification of existing legislation without any change in its content.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this proposal, which is limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in substance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because it poses no problem. it is simply a codification of existing texts without any change in their substance. the purpose of this regulation is therefore to transpose the anti-dumping rules contained in the agreement on implementation of article vi of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994 into european union law. it lays down detailed rules, in particular as regards the calculation of the dumping margin, the procedures for initiating and conducting an investigation, including the establishment and treatment of facts, the imposition of provisional measures, the imposition and collection of anti-dumping duties, the duration and review of anti-dumping measures and the disclosure of information relating to anti-dumping investigations.
in writing. i have decided to support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on defence against dumped imports from countries not members of the union. the proposed regulation aims to consolidate into a single document the anti-dumping rules contained in article 5 of the customs tariff agreement signed in 1994. it sets out detailed rules on the dumping margin and the investigation procedures. it should therefore be remembered that this regulation will replace the various existing instruments which are incorporated into it and will retain all its substance. i attach great importance to the simplification of laws so that the european citizen has more transparent and pragmatic access to union law and can have the opportunity to make use of the rights conferred on him by this parliament. to achieve this, i believe that, as in this case, it will be necessary to codify several instruments relating to the same basic act, in order to avoid that various provisions which have been substantially amended several times are scattered between the basic act and subsequent acts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because, in the light of the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council (com (2014) 0667), and on the basis of the report of the committee on legal affairs (a8-0256/2015), it is considered that, in the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of existing texts, without any change in their substance, and therefore instructs its president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission as well as to the national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ considering that, in the opinion of the consultative group of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, the proposal in question is limited to a pure and simple codification of the existing texts, without any change in their substance, parliament approved the text in question by a large majority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the proposal is a simplified codification of existing legislation without any change in its content.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the european union has signed a number of fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) and protocols with 'third countries'. through the ppps, the union provides financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks in the partner country's exclusive economic zone (eez). this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement, which i have approved, is the first agreement to be signed between the european union and the republic of liberia, which has 570 km of coastline along the atlantic ocean. it will help to increase the fight against illegal fishing and to disseminate the cfp objective of sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal because it is beneficial for both the union and liberia. the agreement provides for access for 34 european vessels to liberian territorial waters on payment of an annual fee for five years. it took effect on 9 december 2015 and had yet to receive the endorsement of the european parliament. on the one hand, the european fleet needs access to new fishing areas, particularly to be able to follow the migration of certain fish species, notably tuna. in liberia, more than half the population lives in coastal areas and depends on fishing. however, the country reports that vessels flying both asian and european flags are illegally fishing in its waters. the eu will pay an annual fee of approximately €650,000 on average to liberia. almost half of this amount will be allocated to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. finally, the commission stresses the sustainability of fisheries, which will not endanger liberia's fish stocks and will provide long-term income for the country.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's approval of the conclusion of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia. in the fisheries sector, liberia is pursuing the objectives of sustainability and responsible management of resources, as is the union. i therefore welcome this new partnership and the positive consequences it should have, inter alia, on the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. in this particular area, cooperation is essential. the proper management of fisheries resources can only be achieved in a multilateral manner. i therefore encourage the establishment of such partnerships and the strengthening of their provisions on transparency of fishing activities. i would also like to stress the importance of the support given by the union to the development of the fisheries sector in the partner countries with which it concludes such agreements.
in writing. ‒ a first in the european parliament, this afternoon, with the adoption by 584 votes in favour of a fisheries agreement between the eu and liberia. it opens liberian waters to 28 european tuna seiners and six surface longliners, in return for a contribution of €3.25 million over five years. this will help liberia to better manage its fisheries resources and improve the implementation of its fisheries regulations. the country still suffers from a flawed monitoring system that hinders its fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. the efforts made are important in cooperating with the international community in this area, modernising its fishing sector and developing local communities. liberia has a strong interest in fostering such partnerships. the figures speak for themselves: more than half of its population lives on its 570 km of coastline, and the fishing sector accounted for 3% of its gdp in 2014. its stocks of bluefin, albacore and bigeye tuna are particularly attractive to european fleets, which catch 10% of their tuna catches in the atlantic and gulf of guinea.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament yesterday approved the conclusion of the first sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia. the report, which was adopted by a large majority, supports the arrangements which allow eu vessels to catch tuna in the waters of this third country, which has 570 km of coastline along the atlantic ocean. the conclusion of a fisheries agreement with liberia would undoubtedly help the european union to achieve its objectives in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the new agreement was initialled in june 2015 for a period of 5 years from the date of provisional application, i.e. the date of their signature. the protocol provides for fishing opportunities in the following categories: 28 purse seiners and 6 surface longliners. it provides for a union financial contribution of eur 715 000 for the first year, eur 650 000 for the second, third and fourth years and eur 585 000 for the fifth year (with a reference tonnage of 6 500 tonnes).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. in recent years, the european union has signed a number of fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) and protocols with 'third countries'. through the ppps, the union provides financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights for a wide range of fish stocks in the partner country's exclusive economic zone (eez). since 2014, with the reform of the common fisheries policy, these agreements have been called 'sustainable fisheries partnership agreements'. this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be signed between the european union and the republic of liberia. it is regrettable, however, that the european parliament has only a limited role in the adoption of the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, reduced to a simple approval procedure. the european parliament should play a more active role and should be immediately and fully informed at the various stages of the procedures relating to ppps or their renewal, in order to increase the transparency and democratic accountability of the protocols!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this first-ever fisheries agreement between liberia and our european union. the agreement will, inter alia, strengthen cooperation between the two partners in the field of fisheries and help to combat illegal fishing. the agreement also provides for the further development of the liberian fisheries sector and improved scientific cooperation. i am convinced that this agreement will contribute to the recovery of liberia after extremely difficult years of conflict and civil war.
in writing. ‒ following a long period of negotiations, the european union and mauritania signed a new protocol on 10 july 2015 which will allow eu fishermen to fish in mauritanian waters for a period of four years. in return, the union will provide a financial contribution to promote sustainable fisheries management on the mauritanian coast. i approved this deal.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the renewal of the fisheries agreement with mauritania. the eu has had fisheries agreements with mauritania since 1989, a sector that is vital for mauritania but also important in the context of the eu's promised 'blue growth', i.e. a policy of sustainable growth in the maritime sector. over the next four years, this agreement provides fishing quotas of around 280 000 tonnes for the european fleet, offset by an annual fee of €60 million, of which just over €4 million will be allocated directly to the development and protection of the mauritanian fishing sector. i would like to stress that the quotas have been reduced compared with the previous agreement in order to protect the environment. the agreement also ensures a genuine economic and development partnership with mauritania, since 60% of the workforce on board will be mauritanian. finally, it is important to highlight the efforts made by mauritania to promote transparency and to publish all similar agreements it concludes with third countries.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's approval of the conclusion of this new fisheries agreement with mauritania. i am particularly pleased that the union is increasing its support for the sustainable development of fisheries in mauritania through sectoral support. it is essential to develop the exploitation of this natural resource, which is so rich in the country, in a sustainable way. it is essential that the union continue to promote the principles of sustainability and responsible resource management that it applies internally with mauritania and its other partners. i would also like to stress and encourage the provisions of the agreement which provide for the commitment of mauritanian fishermen and the obligation to allocate 2% of pelagic trawlers' catches to the poor.
in writing. ‒ this vote validates a new fisheries agreement which regulates access to mauritanian waters in return for compensation of almost €60 million per year. this agreement improves on the previous one, which expired in 2014 and is rarely applied in practice due to the restrictions imposed. it guarantees the union fishing conditions similar to those granted to third countries, in particular as regards fees. the contribution to mauritania is reduced from eur 67 million to eur 55 million per year. the other part of the compensation to promote the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and the protection of maritime areas is increased from eur 3 million to just over eur 4 million per year. a joint committee is hereby established which will be required to revise the quotas allocated to the union in the event of surplus stocks. the commission notes that the mauritanian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures provided for in this decision are in conformity with the union's obligations under the wto agreement on trade in goods, as amended by the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of goods, and that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures provided for in this decision are in conformity with the wto agreement on trade-related aspects of goods. the agreement is the most important fisheries protocol concluded by the union with a third country and, for parliament, should serve as an example for future agreements.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament yesterday gave its assent to the conclusion of the new fisheries agreement between the union and mauritania. after a long period of negotiations, the european union and mauritania initialled on 10 july 2015 a new protocol which will allow union fishermen to fish in mauritanian waters for a period of four years. the protocol, which has been applied provisionally since then, sets out the fishing opportunities for shellfish vessels, non-freezer trawlers, etc. the annual financial contribution that the union will pay to the country for allowing european vessels access to its exclusive fishing zone amounts to eur 55 million per year. this is supplemented by financial assistance of eur 16.5 million over the entire duration of the agreement to promote the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and the protection of the environment in marine protected areas and coastal areas.
in writing. ‒ it is regrettable that the european parliament has only a limited role in the adoption of partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries, reduced to a simple approval procedure. the european parliament should play a more active role and should be immediately and fully informed at the various stages of the procedures relating to ppas or their renewal, in order to increase the transparency and democratic accountability of the protocols. but on the substance of the agreement, i voted in favour of the mato report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this agreement because it is a balanced agreement that all parties agree to. this is the most important protocol concluded by the european union with a third country. the duration of the agreement has been extended to four years, which will ensure greater stability for the fishing fleet in mauritian waters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution giving parliament's consent to the conclusion of a cooperation agreement on a global navigation satellite system (gnss) for civil use between the european community and its member states, on the one hand, and the republic of korea, on the other. the purpose of this agreement is to encourage, facilitate and improve cooperation between the parties in the field of global satellite navigation for civil use. following the recommendations of the committee on industry, research and energy, i thought it appropriate to support it, since the republic of korea is an active user of satellite navigation services and has capabilities in the field of space technology and applications. the areas opened by this agreement for cooperation activities are: radio spectrum, scientific research and training, industrial cooperation, trade and market development, standardisation, homologation and regulatory measures, extensions, safety, liability and cost recovery. the parties may adapt this list by decision of the gnss steering committee established under the agreement. the agreement also includes provisions on the exchange of information, consultation and dispute settlement.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the european parliament's approval of the conclusion of a cooperation agreement with the republic of korea on a global satellite navigation system for civil use. cooperation with a country like the republic of korea is particularly desirable as it is a country at the forefront of space technology. the two partners will thus be able to increase their cooperation in this field with varied applications. satellite navigation for civil use is a future technology with far-reaching potential benefits. i would like to stress the need for global cooperation in order to make the most of the opportunities offered by this technology.
in writing. ‒ ten years after the signing of the cooperation agreement on a global satellite navigation system for civil use between the then european community, the member states and the republic of korea, the council has just approved this strategic agreement on 1 march 2016. south korea thus joins the list of countries which, at different levels of cooperation, already participate in the global navigation satellite system (gnss): china, india, israel, norway and switzerland. it must be recognized that korea is a country with capabilities in the field of space technology and applications. it is an active user of satellite navigation services in various sectors, including transport, fleet management, science and geodesy. and this enables the commission, in line with what it has done since the beginning of the galileo programme, in partnership with the european space agency, to strengthen this strategic area of radio navigation. such cooperation has emerged as a guarantee of the system's overall coherence and, in particular, of its interoperability with other existing or future systems, such as the american gps or the chinese beidou.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation, on the basis of the draft cooperation agreement on a global satellite navigation system for civil use between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, and in the light of the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, which gives its approval to the conclusion of the agreement and instructs the president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission, as well as to the governments and parliaments of the member states and the republic of korea.
in writing. - i have decided not to vote on the report in question. i share the view of my socialist and democratic colleagues that it is regrettable that people whose racist remarks are legionary should represent europe through texts, even if they are not legislative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this cooperation agreement on a global civil satellite navigation system between the european union and south korea. this cooperation will bring technological benefits to both partners.
in writing. ‒ the report, which i approved, highlights two new territorial tools in the context of cohesion policy. local development led by local actors (lda) is a new instrument for infraregional use. it builds on the experience of the leader method of local development led by actors and is based on a bottom-up approach: it aims to strengthen synergies between local actors, both public and private. integrated territorial investment (iti) will contribute to the implementation of integrated territorial strategies insofar as it allows the pooling of funds from several priority axes of one or more operational programmes. it can be used to achieve the sustainable development goal in urban environments. member states should indicate in their partnership agreements how they intend to use the iti and the dlal and the types of areas and challenges that these mechanisms will address.
in writing. innovation is not just a matter of bringing new products to the market or introducing new production processes. policy also needs innovation and sometimes the innovative nature of a new approach lies in the introduction of obvious elements and actors into the decision-making process. this report rightly advocates a bottom-up approach to cohesion policy. prioritizing local knowledge to address local problems with local solutions can help to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of public action. this helps you to anticipate the specific needs of the people in an area. tackling youth unemployment and caring for an ageing population are current challenges where the knowledge of local actors can make a significant contribution to achieving sustainable local employment and social cohesion. community-led local development, with technical and financial guidance and support from the regional, national and european levels, increases the chances of a successful cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ the efficient use of public money, the fight against corruption and mismanagement are golden rules from which no public policy should deviate. the adoption of the tomasic report on new territorial development tools in the context of cohesion policy 2014-2020 should therefore be welcomed. local development led by local actors (lda), which aims to strengthen synergies between local actors, both public and private, and integrated territorial investment (iti), which allows for the pooling of funds from several priority areas to achieve sustainable development objectives, are the two new tools for territorial cohesion. clear strategic choices have been made, with at least 5% of erdf resources now being invested in urban areas. the dutch presidency of the council's strong support for the future european urban agenda through the drafting of the amsterdam pact is a step in the right direction. it is also a sign of the union's renewed determination to commit itself resolutely to a more innovative and cost-effective cohesion policy for cities and urban areas.
in writing. ‒ the text adopted yesterday calls on the member states to put an end to their mistrust of territorial authorities and to better integrate them into the use of these two new instruments of cohesion policy. recalling the lack of financial and human resources suffered by several local and regional authorities, parliament called on the commission and the member states to support local and regional authorities, including through training and advisory services for the smallest entities in particular, in order to limit territorial discrimination. the text also calls on the commission to draw up a european table of practices and to disseminate them as widely as possible, in particular through online platforms, and encourages small administrative entities to come together to streamline resources in order to make the most of the opportunities offered by these instruments. the european council welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ a concrete involvement of regional and local actors from the earliest stages, their commitment and ownership of territorial development strategies and the judicious delegation of responsibilities and resources to lower decision-making levels are essential to the success of the bottom-up approach. i believe that the participation of partners can also strengthen the integrated and territorialised approach, especially in cases of low adherence to the iti and dlal instruments. however, local actors need technical and financial support at regional, national and european level, especially in the early stages of the implementation process. it is in this context that the european parliament intends to adopt this text.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because we as politicians have to ensure the most efficient use of public resources and to combat administrative ignorance and mismanagement.
in writing. i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution for the following reasons. while territorial cohesion is an important objective of the eu, we have not yet achieved all our objectives in this area. this is particularly true of two instruments: the community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investments (iti) programmes, which play a major role in this policy, are also part of the programme. as regards the clld, we have come to the conclusion that it is a very complex concept, that it is considered superfluous by some member states and that a downward vertical movement of power in some of them is also very difficult. in addition, many member states fear the administrative burden associated with the implementation of these mechanisms. these problems are also experienced in relation to the iti. it is therefore clear that i support a resolution which points out these problems and makes clear suggestions on how they can be solved. it is emphasised that the initiatives should follow a bottom-up approach and therefore aim at sufficient participation of local actors. in addition, such an approach should be holistic and inclusive. particular attention should be paid to youth unemployment in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the balance of payments records all economic transactions between resident and non-resident entities during a given period. since the adoption of the original regulation and its successive amendments, international capital flows have both increased and become more complex. more specifically, the increased use of special purpose entities and legal arrangements for the transfer of capital inflows and outflows has increased the difficulties in controlling these capital flows in order to ensure their traceability and to avoid double or multiple accounting, thereby making it more difficult to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. the aim of this report is to update the legislation in force in relation to this phenomenon.
in writing. ‒ the treaty of lisbon has brought about a series of changes in the way the european union works and the powers of the various institutions. it shall be kept under constant review by the commission. some supplement certain non-essential elements of a legislative act, while others are a tool available when uniform conditions for the implementation of legally binding acts are needed. the report aims to give the commission both these powers in specific areas relating to community statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment. the question here is therefore to apply the treaty of lisbon in the context of international trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which, in the light of the commission proposal to the european parliament and the council (com (2014) 0379), the opinion of the european central bank of 5 december 2014 and the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (a8-0227/2015), instructs the president to forward parliament's position to the council and the commission as well as to the national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ the regulation on community statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment is part of the union's overall framework for monitoring economic developments in each member state and in the union as a whole. the production of reliable statistics in these areas serves in particular to monitor key aspects such as developments in current accounts and financial flows within and beyond the union. thus, these statistics help to certify the consistency of the economic policies of the member states with the union's broad guidelines, as well as with the legal obligations deriving from the union's economic governance framework. in particular, the reliability of statistics is essential for the monitoring exercise established in the framework of the macroeconomic imbalance procedures. since the adoption of the original regulation and its successive amendments, international capital flows have both increased and become more complex. a revision was therefore necessary.
in writing. ‒ it is crucial that statistics on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment are up-to-date and accurate. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. before taking any action, and to know whether it should take any action at all, it is necessary for the eu to collect and analyse the right information. an important part of this is the monitoring of economic developments in the member states according to well-defined reference frameworks such as the balance of payments (bop), international trade in services (its) and foreign direct investment (fdi). however, the current regulation (ec) no 184/2005 needs to be updated in due time. first, i agree that the above regulation should be in line with articles 290 (1) and 291 (2) tfeu. i therefore agree that these are essential elements which can only be amended and supplemented by the co-legislative procedure. secondly, it is a good opportunity to tighten up the requirements for the statistical information used by giving priority to greater transparency and detail. this is progress i can only support. in addition to the benefits mentioned above, this motion also calls for the commission and eurostat to cooperate more closely with international organisations such as the oecd and the imf. this will only improve the quality of the information.
in writing. ‒ the eu's mountain regions are rarely given specific attention in cohesion policy. yet these regions represent a significant part of the territory of the european union (about 30%), and the whole of the union depends on their ecosystem services. the present report, which i have approved, therefore calls on the commission:- to draw up a 'programme for european mountain regions', which should form the basis of a european strategy for the long-term development of these regions and to present a white paper on the subject;- to encourage the use of financial instruments in mountain regions in order to achieve concrete results;- to regularly assess the state of mountain regions in the union and to analyse the results of the implementation of the operational programmes of cohesion policy.
in writing. the eu's mountain regions have been treated as stepmothers so far. the eu has no specific policy for mountain areas and their adjacent areas, perhaps because it was assumed that mountain areas, because of their tourist strength and a locally rooted economic fabric, are self-sufficient, require little care and that member states do take the challenges of these areas to heart. in recent years, the understanding of the strengths and challenges of these mountain areas has increased to the extent that their potential contribution to the achievement of european objectives in the fields of energy, climate control and employment must be translated into policy. these unexplored areas, with their high biodiversity, natural resources and abundance of renewable energy sources, deserve their place in the european approach to climate change and the development of green jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is properly implemented. parliament rightly calls on the commission to draw up an agenda for mountain areas. it is logical that the development of mountain areas and their adjacent areas should be included in eu policies and programmes.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. let us begin by adopting a common definition of 'mountain areas'. and there is a definition of mountains in the european fund for rural development, which is specific to agriculture but which could easily be transposed into regional policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. and too often european decision-makers prefer to leave the member states to deal with the mountains and their issues themselves. however, of the €351.8 billion allocated to cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, or almost one third of the total eu budget, a small part can still be made available to mountain regions to meet their specific needs: climate change, seasonal employment, tourism development and environmental protection. the territorial, economic and social cohesion of the union is at that price!
in writing. ‒ by voting overwhelmingly for this report, the european parliament wanted to call on the european commission to draw up a programme for the eu's mountain regions for the next financial programming period (after 2020). the text calls on the european commission to publish a communication containing a programme for the mountain regions of the european union and then a white paper devoted exclusively to the development of mountain regions, based on good practice and integrating all decision-making levels. the text also calls on the commission to initiate a territorial impact study and to undertake a regular and in-depth assessment of the state of mountain regions in the european union, including indicators on changes in the quality of life and demography, with a view to optimising the rate of investment.
in writing. ‒ i share the view of my colleague, ms iotova, and join her in calling on the commission to start the process of creating an operational definition of mountain regions in the context of cohesion policy, complementing the definition of mountain areas used in the context of the european agricultural fund for rural development, with a view to improving the coordination of the relevant policies and measures. such a definition must be broad and inclusive, taking into account various factors such as altitude, accessibility and slope. the commission must develop a comprehensive definition covering also volcanic regions in islands and the outermost regions, as well as areas which, being non-mountain, are largely integrated into mountainous areas. in this context, the idea, taken up in the european union's strategy for the alpine region, of including non-mountain areas in the strategy is a good initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights how mountain areas in the european union can contribute to achieving eu objectives such as europe 2020.
for the greens/efa group madam president, at the dawn of his mandate, jean-claude juncker was essentially saying right here that for him social justice was as important as sound public finances. ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the crisis and despite three aid plans for greece - or perhaps because of them - the three million greek citizens who were exposed to poverty and social exclusion in 2009 have been joined by 900 000 more, the combined population of luxembourg and malta. some say this is the price greece must pay for past mistakes. i think that those who have benefited from the country's over-indebtedness - i am thinking of the financial sector, the shipowners, the arms industry, but also a clientelist political class - are not the ones who are paying the price for this irresponsibility today. so you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that i do not share the optimism that seems to be prevailing following yesterday's eurogroup. the so-called step forward is the possible possibility of discussing ways of alleviating the debt. but the price to pay, even to enter into these discussions, is so exorbitant that it makes any real possibilities of debt relief completely paltry. while restructuring was needed as early as 2010 to make private creditors pay the price for their irresponsibility, six years later, the public creditors are just waving the carrot of hypothetical relief, provided that greece drinks the austerity cup to the brim. the creditors are insisting on increasing this austerity, while the imf itself considers it to be socially unsustainable and economically counterproductive, the same imf which advocates debt relief. i find that those who insist on having the imf on board because the imf knows how to handle a crisis like this, are adamant that they don't listen to what the imf is saying when it says, "let's ease austerity and restructure debt". of course, this would force the creditors, and all those who insist on austerity, to admit that they have been going about it the wrong way. they obviously cannot admit that, especially when the government they are facing is not exactly of their political colour. then, of course, there are all the things that are absent from the conclusions of yesterday's council and eurogroup, such as the question of investment. investment has fallen by 70% in greece since the start of the crisis. everyone knows that investment capacity in greece is zero, but we are told that there will be some crumbs from the juncker plan to celebrate. you'll have understood that it won't be enough. there is also the question of establishing a proper tax system. it is clear that successive greek governments have not shown much enthusiasm for finally collecting the tax and fighting against tax evasion and avoidance. eurozone member states could have provided expertise by delegating officials, but as they have made 58,000 redundancies in the public sector, the 'finance' sector, they may not have had enough people left to send reinforcements to greece. i would say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that without a radical change of course, the suffering of a greece which has been largely abandoned and is alone in the face of the refugee challenge will only increase, without the state or its economy being able to rebuild. is that all the last chance commission has to offer?
for the ecr group war, environmental disasters and food insecurity have been and continue to be causes of much suffering and death and sorrow. millions of people around the world are crying out for help. in syria, ecuador, yemen, ukraine, burundi, but also in turkey. turkey which, ironically, is the host country of this world summit. the southeast of the country is bleeding. the repressive practices of erdogan against the kurds are appalling. and i ask the eu and its member states: speak up for these people at the summit. we all agree that things can and should be better. the current context and crisis call for more resources, but above all for greater efficiency. we must learn from the mistakes of the past. i will mention a few points. coordination is fundamental. local ngos and the private sector can add value. in addition, complementarity is important. humanitarian aid and development aid must be better coordinated. proactive measures are also essential. there is too little focus on emergency prevention, which makes relief and reconstruction much more expensive afterwards. and finally, we need to talk about conditional relief: aid linked to political or security considerations. the summit must not become another chatterbox. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and on this point i agree with the previous speaker. there is no way that we can get back together in this and a year's time without in-between, tangible changes on the ground. if not, the summit in istanbul will be a failure in advance.
for the ecr group the new development goals are ambitious and they can be historic in their impact. it is now up to the international community to show that it is serious and also to the european union. the union must take what was negotiated in new york as a momentum to modernise its own development strategy. i have three suggestions. firstly, it is fundamental to involve the private sector because it is an indispensable player in creating wealth. it is a utopia to think that substantial progress can be made by relying solely on financial transfers from the rich countries. point two: goals alone will get you nowhere. it is essential to focus on policies and reforms that create prosperity and drive economic growth, such as integrating poor countries into global trade, good governance, fighting corruption. finally, it is important that progress be measurable. indicators should be sufficiently clear and specific and it is crucial that they are tailored to the specific circumstances of each state.
it is very important that what we bring in from one side - whether in paris or new york - we also implement in the european union itself. therein lies a very important challenge. let me give you two examples. in paris, where we talked about climate, and it was very much tied to the 2030 goals and the sdgs, we made a commitment to keep the temperature rise below 2 degrees. that has an impact on the objectives we are formulating for ets and also for non-ets and the commission is fully engaged in that. i can only tell them to be very ambitious. the second example, perhaps a little unexpected, concerns biodiversity. three sdgs are about biodiversity and the commission started a 'fitness check' of the habitats directive and the birds directive 15 months ago. it is extremely important that we convert them as well. we must not revise these guidelines, but implement them. and that is an encouragement to the commission.
i myself started to assess the situation in the zaatari refugee camp in jordan exactly one year ago. it must be said that the establishment and management of that camp by the un refugee agency unhcr is commendable. where's the money now that those camps are running out? why are these families sailing in old boats to europe? the answer is that there are insufficient resources and that is very concrete. for example, food rations have been very low for some time. what does a starving family do when they can't get a work permit? fleeing, or marrying off their daughters at an early age and sending their sons out to beg. europe must not wave the moral finger and keep its borders open. europe must contribute to the reception in the region with adequate resources for the refugee camps. the fact that we are still having to repeat this years after the war in syria broke out, it discourages me. the fact that private organizations have to provide assistance to people and children with disabilities with their own resources makes me angry.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. we are, of course, talking about one fact today, and that is the destruction of projects financed by the european union. we could indeed talk about a great many other things, but let us stick to the subject. the european union is an ally of israel and we all know that. but as we speak here about stopping the demolitions, never before have so many projects been destroyed. according to un figures, 75 buildings and structures financed by europe and eu member states were destroyed in the first quarter of this year, and that is probably only a fraction of what was actually destroyed. it seems to me - and i am very cautious at this point - that this is a systematic policy against the palestinians. that is the way to achieve the two-state solution that we all so strongly support. schools, playgrounds, water wells, solar panels, everything is being destroyed. i'm not into that. belgium, france, the netherlands, poland, spain, we, the european union, we all gave our support. but this is being destroyed by military arrogance. hundreds of thousands of euros are now at stake. for belgium alone, we are talking about almost 150 000 euros. we know people get screwed. we know that 400 children have been made homeless since this year. and yet here in europe, it's quiet again. mrs mogherini, europe must demand that international humanitarian law be respected, and both sides must make that clear. so both sides have to respect it. and i would very much like to have the exact figures: what was destroyed that was paid for by us and how do we deal with it? i haven't heard that one here. are we going to ask for funding or make it a condition?
mr president, first of all i would like to thank you, mrs mogherini, for your commitment to the middle east and the energy you put into it, particularly in the context of the israeli-palestinian conflict. i fully share your objective of trying by all means to facilitate the peace process and to achieve a two-state solution. what we are dealing with today - you said that - is part of the different challenges we have in the israeli-palestinian conflict, namely the destruction of these infrastructures - basic infrastructure - financed by the european union in palestinian territories. it is strange to hear some of our colleagues here who have a hard time coming to terms with the obvious: it is not these infrastructures that are illegal, it is the settlements that are illegal and that must be stopped. and so to declare illegal the humanitarian infrastructure that we pay for in order to meet the needs of the palestinians, i find that totally indecent. so all we ask of you - and we support you in this - is to re-establish dialogue and to take sanctions if necessary, or even to obtain financial compensation.
my delegation is satisfied with the outcome of the trialogue negotiations. europol, the eu agency for police cooperation, is being strengthened. the n-va has been hammering on that for a long time. europol is thus better able to assist member states in the fight against serious crime and terrorism. for example, the law now allows europol to report jihadist tweets to the provider concerned via contacts in those member states. that company can then remove those hateful posts because they violate its terms and conditions. so far, this specialised unit within europol has sent 1 000 removal requests, more than half of which have been granted. this is an excellent practice, which will be reinforced from now on. in addition, europol will now also have a more modern and flexible data management system that is fit for the 21st century. if all the member states now also start to exchange information effectively and if europol is put at the centre of that exchange of information, that is certainly a major step forward.
madam president, commissioner, i am convinced that i shall vote for the europol regulation which is before us today after several years of work. i would particularly welcome the clear provisions which will make it possible to increase the effectiveness of the european counter-terrorism centre by improving the exchange of information. i also welcome the possibility for europol to exchange information with private companies, which will in some cases make it possible to ask service providers - facebook, for example - to remove pages that promote the islamic state. finally, i welcome the fact that this future regulation will place europol under the joint democratic control of european and national parliamentarians. i have two regrets, however: europol has not been given sufficient powers of initiative, in particular for the opening of criminal investigations, and nothing serious is planned to create even an embryo of a european intelligence service. i hope that in the future the council will not regret not having done so in time.
blue-card question.– i can agree with a lot of things you said about freedom, solidarity and responsibility, but you said that the legislation we are now voting is not on a european fbi, and that this is not possible. well, you know the point of view of the alde group: we really want to go one step further. so i wanted to ask you why is a european fbi at the moment not possible, because i really think we need it?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, first of all, i take my hat off to the remarkable work that has been done by our colleague, cecilia wikström. congratulations, my dear fellow. to live up to its ambitions and its destiny, europe must meet at least three challenges. first, investing heavily in innovation, that is, in intelligence to boost growth and create jobs. secondly, to maintain and strengthen its social model by guaranteeing equal rights and combating all forms of discrimination. thirdly, not to withdraw into itself but to radiate to the world the original synthesis it wants to promote between its model of growth and its unique social model. it is in the light of these three requirements that i wholeheartedly support the proposal before us today. the first objective is to facilitate access to european territory for highly qualified people. tomorrow, thanks to this proposal, a student will be able to come to europe more easily, he will have more opportunities for work and mobility and the right to stay for twelve months in the union in order to look for a job. i also welcome the more favourable conditions for researchers, both in terms of family reunification and mobility, by allowing them to pursue their research in member states other than the one which granted them their residence permit. but i also want to emphasize with equal force the contribution of this proposal to the development of the european social model. i am glad that a status is finally being offered to au pairs and unpaid trainees, who are fragile and therefore susceptible to exploitation. europe is thus true to itself, both in its economic ambition and in its social vocation. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". your question seems important to me. i think we all agree that we must organize legal access routes to european territory tomorrow, defining the conditions and modalities in such a way that people can come in safety and that this is good for us, for the european economy, for them and for the development of the european union. so i think this proposal is going in the right direction, even if it took a long time to come about.
should we assume our responsibility for asylum? yes, we should. but let's also ask the question honestly: when does alleged mercy become naivety? let us be honest about the challenges we face in taking in asylum seekers. if we want to provide them with a social safety net, we will also need a strong economy to support it. and that brings us to the topic of this debate: how can we bring top-level students and researchers to europe? how do we ensure that we attract that top global talent and strengthen our welfare state? at the same time, we must not be naive, because if we look at the environment, if we look at europe, we also see very high youth unemployment. we must also take account of that. this proposal does that effectively, not only by allowing member states to decide how many visas they grant and how many they do not grant, but also by leaving our welfare state and social security to the member states. that seems like a real win-win situation to me.
in writing. ‒ the crr ('capital requirements regulation') exempts commodity dealers ('investment firms whose main business is to provide investment services only') from the requirements for large exposures and capital respectively. this derogation shall expire on 31 december 2017. a time-out clause was initially introduced in the crr to allow regulators time to define a prudential regime tailored to the risk profile of commodity traders. the commission has therefore decided to undertake a review of an appropriate regime for commodity traders and the prudential supervision of investment firms in general. the commission considered that this was necessary to ensure the development of a consistent supervisory framework for all categories of investment firms.
in writing. ‒ the requirements set out in eu regulation no 575/2013 ('crr regulation') and directive 2013/36/ec ('crd directive') apply to credit institutions and investment firms. the amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: original deduction according to article 56 (b) of crr those two derogations shall expire on 31 december 2017. the commission has decided to undertake a review of an appropriate regime for commodity traders and the prudential supervision of investment firms. it considers that this is necessary to ensure the development of a consistent supervisory framework for all categories of investment firms. this complex review will not be completed before the end of the year. the commission considers that the new approach to the application of the crr does not imply that the requirements of the crr and the crd are not applicable to commodity traders.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text on exemptions for commodity traders. the derogations shall expire on 31 december 2017. a time-out clause was initially introduced in the crr to allow regulators time to define a prudential regime tailored to the risk profile of commodity traders. the term 'commodity trader' covers a wide range of energy and commodity market participants: for some, comparable to investment firms in terms of functions and risks, the trading of commodity derivatives contracts is the only activity; for others, it is only a side activity of the production of raw materials.
in writing. i have agreed to this text on the exemption for commodity traders. a derogation from this regulation applies to traders in raw materials in certain situations. this was already included in the original version, but it only applies until 31 december 2017. future, adapted legislation will have to provide a specific framework for commodity traders. this new legislation can of course only be created on the basis of a thorough evaluation by the european commission of investment firms in the eu. however, it is expected that this report will not be ready by the deadline of 31 december 2017. the group of traders protected by the exemptions would then be covered by a completely new legislative framework, with potentially negative consequences. in order to ensure the continued positive effect of the regulation and to avoid potential negative side effects, we have extended the operation of this exemption until 31 december 2020. in this way, potential destabilising effects created by an uncertain legislative framework are avoided.
in writing. ‒ our citizens expect more security and more action to combat terrorism. the recent attacks have only made it clear that organized crime knows no borders. i therefore believe that it is important to continue to strengthen europol in order to promote cooperation between member states. the council's proposal takes an important step in this respect, as it calls for the establishment of a european cybercrime centre to specifically counter the online propaganda used by criminal groups to spread their criminal activities. the exchange of information between the member states and europol will also be promoted. this is the only way for europol to effectively assess information to combat terrorist cells. i therefore voted in favour of this report. nevertheless, it is important to me to stress that more europe is needed to enable effective action to be taken against terrorist cells. i therefore support the idea of a european intelligence service.
in writing. ‒ i have of course approved this proposal, which contains three important advances: 1) firstly, europol is strengthened in its role as an organisation promoting mutual cooperation between member states for the prevention and suppression of serious crime and terrorism. the new rules provide that member states should provide europol with the information necessary to carry out its tasks. the strengthening of the exchange of information at european level is essential if internal security is to be ensured and schengen is to be strengthened. with the new provisions, europol becomes a major player in this european intelligence exchange; 2) the rules on the control of the use of personal data required of europol are strengthened in parallel with the increase of its powers. the european data protection supervisor will for example be responsible for monitoring the use of data by europol; 3) finally, the democratic control of europol will also be strengthened as the work of europol will be supervised by a joint parliamentary review group composed of members of both the european parliament and national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the new regulation to strengthen the mandate of europol (the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation) so that the agency is truly able to combat the increase in cross-border crime and terrorist threats. given the transnational nature of the threats facing europe, particularly since the recent terrorist attacks in france and belgium, it has become essential to strengthen cooperation between member states and contacts between operational law enforcement staff in europe. the new regulation will make it easier for europol to set up specialised units to respond promptly to emerging threats. the agency will also be able to remove terrorist propaganda online more quickly as europol's internet content reporting unit will now be able to contact a social network service provider, such as facebook, directly to request that it remove a web page operated by the islamic state. finally, this future regulation provides that the activities of europol should be subject to democratic control by the european parliament and the national parliaments, which is why i have been advocating this for a long time.
in writing. ‒ the reform of europol is a new step in the establishment of a security union. we know that our security problems are partly due to the lack of europe, the lack of cooperation and the lack of information exchange between the member states. europol has a key role to play in this context. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament and the council have reached an agreement to strengthen the effectiveness of the european counter-terrorism centre. it is essential that europol in practice becomes the place where information is not only effectively exchanged but also analysed. europol must strengthen its role in coordinating national practices, for example by establishing risk analyses. but this is only the first step. europol still lacks the power of initiative, in particular to open criminal investigations. the agency also does not have a european intelligence service. our security is undeniably dependent on the security union. it is a construction site where we must redouble our efforts.
in writing. ‒ the european police office, europol, will soon be able to step up its efforts to fight terrorism, cybercrime and other criminal offences, and to respond more quickly to threats, thanks to new governance rules we adopted this afternoon. the new powers will be accompanied by robust safeguards in terms of data protection and tools for democratic control. to avoid information gaps in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, the new rules stipulate that member states should provide europol with the data the office needs. europol will also be required to submit an annual report to the european parliament, the council, the commission and national parliaments on the information provided by member states, with a view to encouraging the sharing of information.
in writing. - i voted for the text. the establishment of a harmonised high level of data protection covering police and judicial activities in the union is crucial to respecting and guaranteeing the fundamental rights of union citizens. in view of the shared responsibilities of the union and the member states in the area of freedom, security and justice, it is essential that there is close and effective cooperation between the supervisory authorities at national and union level. we believe that, following the adoption of the proposals for a general data protection regulation and a data protection directive for the processing of data in the police and judicial sector, including the new european data protection board to be set up shortly, and in view of the announced review of the regulation, the various cooperation mechanisms between the european data protection supervisor and the national supervisory authorities in this area, including the cooperation committee set up by this regulation, should in future be reorganised in order to ensure efficiency and consistency and to avoid unnecessary duplication, without prejudice to the commission's right of initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, which will provide more legal certainty for europol's activities, so that it can contribute even more to greater cooperation at european level between the different law enforcement agencies. this proposal also includes the creation of a specialised joint parliamentary scrutiny group which will monitor europol's activities in order to ensure the protection of our fundamental rights and freedoms.
in writing. i supported the council's position by voting against the amendments to its position. the reason why i support a stronger europol is in line with what is stated in the joint declaration. in short, the basic rights of the european citizen can only be guaranteed if the police and judicial services function properly. i believe that greater harmonisation and better data protection can ensure more effective cooperation between the national competent authorities of the different member states. i also support the call for this efficient and effective cooperation to be extended to the national competent authorities, the data protection supervisor and the european data protection board.
in writing. ‒ i approved this text because the agreement reached is probably the maximum result in the current context. some positive points are to be highlighted, such as the extension of visas of more than three months to trainees, volunteers and, optionally, au pairs. similarly, the mobility of students and researchers who are in possession of a long-term visa is simplified and extended within the union and the family members of researchers are now included in the directive with a right to work and move within the union. finally, after completing their studies or research, students and researchers may stay in the union for a period of 12 months to find a job or start their own business.
in writing. ‒ to achieve its ambition, the union must invest heavily in innovation to boost growth and create jobs, while maintaining and consolidating its social model. it is in the light of its requirements that i support this proposal. it is designed to bring highly qualified people to the union. tomorrow a student will have the opportunity to come to europe more easily, to have greater mobility within the union and will be offered the opportunity to stay for 12 months in the union in order to find a job in the host country. the more favourable conditions for researchers, in terms of family reunification and enabling them to pursue their research in member states other than the one which granted them their residence permits, should encourage the arrival of new scientists. i welcome the promotion of the european social model with the status offered to au pairs and unpaid trainees, a vulnerable category that is susceptible to exploitation. the eu is true to its model, both in its economic ambition and its social vocation.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this directive establishing new rules on the residence of third-country nationals wishing to travel to the union for the purposes of research, studies, training, volunteering, pupil exchange and au pairs. simplification and harmonisation of the rules on entry and residence for these categories of persons add real value to european policy and to the attractiveness of the union for these third-country nationals. the simplification of the rules governing their movement within the union and the extension of the periods during which they may stay in the european territory after their studies or research will enable them, and the union, to make the most of the opportunities offered by their stay in europe.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted this afternoon harmonised rules to encourage the stay of foreign researchers and students in the union. the legislation also improves the conditions for trainees, volunteers, young students and au pairs from non-european countries. the new rules merge two existing directives to ensure that students and researchers can stay for at least nine months after completing their studies or research in order to find a job or start a business, which should allow europe to benefit from their skills. students and researchers will also have the opportunity to move more easily within the union during their stay. in future, they will not need to apply for a new visa, but only to inform the member state to which they are travelling. the revised directive also gives a status to trainees (paid or unpaid), apprentices, volunteers participating in european service and au pairs from third countries, which were excluded until now. i'm so happy for you. it should be noted that member states will have a two-year period to transpose the provisions into national law after their publication in the official journal of the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training, voluntary service and pupil exchange programmes or educational and work-as-a-peer projects. i have followed the advice of my distinguished colleagues on this and the recommendation for second reading of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out the conditions of entry and residence for third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, traineeships, voluntary work, student exchanges and au pairs. it is a well-considered document which allows third-country nationals to come to the european union to acquire skills and knowledge through a period of training in our member states.
in writing. i fully support this resolution. i support the directive which aims to create a more efficient, transparent and targeted legal framework for a targeted group of people. specifically, it concerns people who want to stay in the eu temporarily for the purposes of study, research, training, au pair, etc. the ultimate aim of the proposed directive is to combat brain drain and the ageing of the european workforce. europe will once again become more attractive to highly skilled workers. these are essential to safeguard the future of the european labour market and industry. in addition, the opportunity was taken to relax the rules on the period of exchange between different european member states and to extend the period of exchange for students and researchers to six months.
in writing. ‒ with a budget of over €350 billion until 2020, cohesion policy is the european union's main investment and development policy covering all regions of the union. in some member states it is even the main source of public investment. however, it should be noted that in the first two years of the new programming period, implementation of this policy has been delayed. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the new rules on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance. i therefore welcome the commission's decision to set up a high-level group of independent experts to monitor simplification for beneficiaries of the european structural and investment funds (esi funds) in order to support economic, social and territorial cohesion and to achieve the objectives of the eu's europe 2020 strategy. for me, simplification is one of the prerequisites for speeding up implementation. i therefore strongly supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ in voting on this text on the general delay in the implementation of cohesion policy 2014-2020, we called on the european commission to take a series of actions to accelerate the implementation of cohesion policy. in essence, the resolution calls on the commission to carry out an evaluation of the implementation of cohesion policy, in order to identify ways of ensuring its acceleration and to draw lessons from the discussions on cohesion policy beyond 2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on speeding up the implementation of cohesion policy. i support the request to the commission to examine the state of play of the implementation of the esi funds over the period 2014-2020 and to carry out a detailed analysis of the risk of decommitment, indicating the amounts by member state, as well as an analysis of the payment forecasts submitted by the member states as soon as possible after the expiry of the deadlines of 31 january and 31 july set out in the common provisions regulation. we also ask the commission to specify what measures are planned to avoid the release of the esi funds as much as possible.
in writing. ‒ if cohesion policy is used effectively and in a timely manner, we can increase economic growth more efficiently. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
for the ecr group the commission envisages a reform of the dublin system. that is the system that determines which member state is responsible for an asylum application. that remains the first member state of entry and so in fact, for example, greece. only if the burden becomes too great for the first-line member state on the basis of its size and economic strength can refugees be relocated. only if greece objectively cannot cope with the situation should other member states take in asylum seekers. and yes, there are sanctions if eastern europe does not cooperate. the n-va has always insisted strongly on this. the n-va is in favour of a distribution plan because belgium already handles twice the european average of asylum applications and thus benefits from a better distribution. but as in the past, the n-va will not vote for a proposal that is not sufficiently developed. transfer is only the last step. first, we need an adequate eu border policy and an economic ceiling. only then can we talk about spreading and integrating. there's no point in leaving the faucet open and just moping more efficiently.
no asylum system in this european union can be an acceptable asylum system for the citizens of europe for the simple reason that you, the rulers of the european union, have exhausted all trust and credibility. your border policy has become an open border policy. you have turned asylum into a wild immigration, poisoned and tainted by deceit, materialism and human trafficking and by the ideology of a multicultural delusion that undermines the foundations of europe unity in diversity . we do not want your asylum policy any more, ladies and gentlemen of the european commission. it is terrifying and it no longer has the support of the people of europe.
for the ecr group the european commission wants to grant visa-free travel to 80 million turkish citizens from june. this is really incomprehensible. the agreement on asylum with turkey clearly states that there will be no special visa requirements for turkey. the commission itself acknowledges that turkey does not meet all 72 conditions, but it is still trying to push through this mordicus. but turkey is not keeping its end of the bargain. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. especially in these times of terrorism, seizures of critical newspapers and the arbitrary arrests of journalists, these are not trifles. it is enough to refer to the zaman newspaper, the german stand-up comedian jan böhmermann and the dutch-turkish journalist ebru umar. instead of making sweet sandwiches with erdogan, the european commission should be more forceful in its criticism of turkey's failing and worsening policy on issues such as freedom of expression. no double sizes and double weights, please. i would like to remind you that the conditions for turkey must be met with extra rigor now that it is a candidate country. we as members of parliament must not participate in the selling off of european values. in fact, there should be no substantive debate here until turkey has fulfilled all the visa requirements. i am rather ashamed of the submissive attitude of the commission towards a dictator. the speaker is addressing a 'blue card' question (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. i cannot answer on behalf of the commission. i can only tell you what happened in the libe committee. there has been criticism. we have said in the libe committee that we only want to continue the talks if turkey meets all the conditions. what the commission does is its business. but first turkey must meet all the conditions and then we will talk further.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i could clearly hear your concerns voiced in this debate, but let me assure you once again that the commission will continue monitoring the progress in fulfilling the outstanding benchmarks of the visa liberalisation roadmap. we have put forward a proposal to comply with the strict timeframe provided for in the 18 march statement. you all remember that. the decision is now to be taken by you and the council in the co-decision procedure. the commission hopes that your final decision will be positive, provided that all the criteria of the roadmap are fulfilled by turkey. we have been very clear from the very first moment on that. i would like to conclude by underlining, one more time, the strategic importance to give a successful conclusion to the visa liberalisation process; a process which the european union and turkey have jointly started already since 2013. successfully concluding this process by fulfilling all benchmarks of the roadmap will be indeed very beneficial for both the european union and for turkey. it will not only contribute to create a higher level of security and a better management of migration and mobility for our citizens; more than that it will create further possibilities for people-to-people contacts between the citizens of turkey and those of the european union, thus facilitating mutual knowledge and building confidence. ultimately, i am convinced it will represent a decisive step forward for turkey as a candidate country in the process of its legal approximation towards eu standards in the field of justice and home affairs. in this perspective, i am convinced that the commission took the right decision to present the proposal. it is now clearly up to the turkish authorities to do the last effort, to walk the last mile, allowing to fulfil the outstanding requirements of the roadmap. the european union must, and will, stand by turkey in its efforts to accompany the country in its endeavours. the commission will continue in the weeks to come to stay in close contact with the turkish authorities and provide assistance and advice to ensure that jointly the european union and turkey will be able to conclude this process. as i said in my introductory remarks, it is beneficial for both sides. let us approach this in a positive way, because we have already the first tangible results and outcome of this cooperation. let me answer nikos androulakis in greek. κύριε ανδρουλάκη, το ερώτημα που θέσατε τέθηκε και στην προηγούμενη συζήτηση. δεν θα ήθελα να επαναλάβω αυτά που είπα, απλώς να σας πω ότι δεν υπάρχει plan b, εργαζόμαστε και συνεχίζουμε πάνω στην αρχή της αλληλεγγύης που είναι και ο οδηγός μας. η φημολογία και όλα αυτά που γράφτηκαν τον τελευταίο καιρό στις εφημερίδες για το θέμα που θίξετε δεν έχουν καμία βάση. και εγγυητής για την εφαρμογή των όσων έχουμε συζητήσει και αποφασίσει εδώ είναι η ίδια η ευρωπαϊκή επιτροπή. δεν υπάρχει λοιπόν κανένας λόγος ανησυχίας. ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention.
in writing. the abolition of the visa requirement is of course primarily intended to boost cooperation between europe and third countries, including turkey. but that can never be done without maximum guarantees of safety. so only citizens with the latest biometric passports will be eligible. turkey must meet all the conditions for the european parliament to give its consent to the visa liberalisation request. if essential legislative changes are not made, our group will not approve visa liberalization. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is quite different from the partner country, which is also a neighbouring country, trying to provoke and stir up tensions in delicate negotiations. in this particular case, it is wiser not to add fuel to the fire but to look for constructive solutions and to see results. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, the amendment of this directive is not a mere minor development. i think this is a really crucial step in the fight against social dumping and tax avoidance. it is a fight that many of us here in the european parliament are fighting with you, commissioner. i think it is really a fight for the fierce defence of a vision of a more just society in which everyone has an equal chance of success, because we obviously cannot accept that the richest, the best organised or the least scrupulous manage to evade tax and let others pay the bill. when google, facebook, amazon, apple and many others organise themselves to avoid paying taxes in europe, it is obviously the smes, the middle classes, the workers and the civil servants who are paying the price. we all know that taxes are the funding of our schools, employment grants, public transport, security; it's really all that allows us to live together in a society that is moving towards more justice. that is why i am somewhat sorry that the amendment of this directive concerns so few multinationals. our aim is not to target only the biggest multinationals, the most publicized ones or those whose shops we frequent on weekends. our goal is really to cover as many multinational companies as possible. why would you do that? just to avoid tax evasion. i believe that this is the essential condition for restoring the same market conditions between multinational and national companies in europe. it is therefore essential that the threshold for the application of this standard be set for all multinational companies considered as large companies by the accounting directive: eur 40 million in turnover and 250 employees. without this, the directive would only concern one multinational in ten. so instead of restoring a certain amount of tax justice, we could even create a little more injustice by creating two categories of multinationals: those that can continue to organize massive tax evasion with impunity and the others. so i think a strong and clear signal needs to be sent: multinationals - all multinationals - must submit to country-by-country reporting. when you have nothing to blame yourself for, you have nothing to hide.
everyone should pay their taxes honestly. it is therefore good that we are also tackling this issue here in the european parliament. what we do better together, we should not do separately, and this case is a very good example of that. we will now require multinationals to share information with the tax authorities, information on the number of jobs they have, on the profits they make, and so on. it is important to combat illegal tax evasion, especially in these times of panama. we have always said it and we will continue to say it: we must respect and implement the oecd standards, but at the same time we must not be blind to them. we must not be blind to the idea that europe is an island, nor to the burdens that already weigh on our smes. so let that be clear, too. no additional burden may be added to it. that is why we will vote against many of the united left amendments tomorrow, because they have understood it differently and want to impose additional administrative burdens on our smes.
madam president, the latest oecd report shows how inequality is bad for people but also for economic growth. this is one more reason to stress the need for the european union to return to the path of strong, sustainable and inclusive growth. the debate on inequality cannot be reduced to purely economic and social considerations. inequality also weakens our democracy and the european project, which, as a reminder, aims in particular to bring the economies of the various states closer together and also to bring about a harmonization of social conditions. inequalities must be denounced, but it is even more important to have concrete policies to reduce them. in this connection, i would like to stress four elements. the first is employment, the creation of sustainable and decent jobs, sustainable jobs. this is the first step towards reducing inequalities and i support the commission's initiative on the investment plan. the second is to ensure job transitions in an ever-changing economy. the third is to combat all forms of exclusion, especially school exclusion. and finally, i expect the social rights pillar to allow for real convergence upwards. this is essential and i am convinced that the action of the social partners must be given a central place in these various aspects of the matter.
we are therefore in favour of the introduction of a system of compulsory labelling of milk in yoghurt containers or of meat in lasagna, which will improve the quality of these products, combat fraud, protect employment and restore consumer confidence. the debate on compulsory labelling of origin again lacks the necessary sense of reality and i regret that. yet the facts are crystal clear. the labelling of origin indicates the origin but does not improve the quality, does not increase traceability, does not prevent fraud. obligatory origin labelling is protectionist, contrary to the principles of the single market and is particularly disadvantageous to smaller export-oriented regions and nations, such as flanders, and to border regions. additional rules will not restore the breached consumer confidence. we must instead focus on stricter enforcement of existing agreements, on stronger sanctions if necessary, and continue to work on the voluntary labelling of origin, which is already being applied cost-effectively today.
a year ago i spoke out against mandatory labelling of processed meat. i say today that extending such an obligation to milk is even more unwise if possible. what does compulsory origin labelling mean for the dairy sector? more administration and more costs, which in this case will very likely be borne by the dairy farmer. they're not looking forward to that today. because let 's face it: in practice, this does not simply mean an extra label or a flag. it 's about a lot more than that . transport in different storage tanks, storage in separate silos, a production process with separate milk flows, increased workload. in short, far too high an investment for a sector which can barely keep its head above water, with little added value. the current extensive food safety regulations are already more than adequate. the quality of our milk is always guaranteed, fortunately, and all the milk sold in europe is traceable back to the farmer. food safety has nothing to do with the country of origin. finally, two questions. how credible are slogans such as 'support for smes' and 'support for our agriculture' if we are chasing our farmers through the back door with such measures? and how much credibility do we have for young people who expect europe to provide vision and leadership and who are being replaced by unnecessary regulation? you can answer for yourself.
in writing. this is a lie whose only purpose is to protect the multinational agribusinesses! the cost increase for companies already using this labelling was only 0.67%. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. the commission, acting as the spokesman for the undertakings, refuses to mention the origin of the meat and milk on the grounds that it would cause additional costs for the undertakings. as a reminder, at the end of 2013, the results of the large dna testing operation revealed that more than 5% of the beef checked was not. in some countries, such as france, this figure is as high as 15%. it is therefore essential that the new legislation be accompanied by a significant increase in controls on processed meat. by voting for this text, the european parliament is once again making itself the spokesman for the rights of the citizen. europeans need to know what's on their plate and therefore have the information they need to make an informed choice. the labelling of origin is compulsory for fresh meat, but there is absolutely no reason why it should not also be compulsory for prepared food and milk.
i'm the reporter. mr president, it is a pity that the commissioner is not here, i hope she can join us despite the traffic. we have a report today on parental leave. we looked at a directive that dates back to 1995 and has been in place since 2010 to evaluate and make a number of recommendations on parental leave. parental leave is, of course, one of the tools that helps to better reconcile private and professional life. this parental leave is important because it allows families to make the choice not only to have children but also to go to work. today in europe we have two challenges: the challenge of the birth rate, which is important, but also the challenge of the employment rate for all men and women. in the present situation, we have identified a number of difficulties with respect to these various challenges and the application of this directive. firstly, we continue to see real discrimination against women in employment, because they are locked into traditional roles and seen as a risk to maternity and therefore a cost to the employer. according to eurostat data, we see that men take less parental leave and, in general, take less care of everything related to the private sphere. but for parental leave, the phenomenon is even more pronounced: only 2.7% of men take parental leave. so you see the disparity between a woman's reality and a man's reality. finally, i will quote the figures in relation to the employment rate, which still show a real disparity between the employment rates of women and men, the disparity also in wages, the disparity in pensions and the disparity in careers. parental leave must be able to respond to all these. of course, not alone, and we look forward to working on the commission's roadmap on reconciling private and professional life. but we have made a number of recommendations in this report to correct the situation in terms of parental leave. the first obvious thing in this analysis of parental leave is the question of its transferability. it appears that when parental leave is fully transferable, traditional models are reinforced, namely that women carry the social model and men the economic model. this transferability, when left entirely free, reinforces this pattern: it is women who take parental leave, and only 2.7% of men are in this situation. we therefore recommend that parental leave should not be transferable or at least should be transferable, as far as possible, in a framework which does not reinforce traditional roles. flexibility, yes, but not a flexibility which accentuates the situations in which women as well as men find themselves today. the second recommendation is the question of treatment. it is a little too easy to propose leave when it is unpaid, because it also creates a reinforcement of the traditional role, i.e. the person who takes on the social role will take it - he will be forced to take it because he has no choice - and the person who takes on the economic role will not be able to get rid of this economic role because he is not paid to do so. we therefore call for the right to be paid for parental leave when it is granted. in the report on poverty which we have drawn up, we see that women suffer much more from poverty because they have to take a certain number of leave days which are not properly paid. the question of remuneration also arises in this case. the third question is protection. taking leave parental leave often means quitting your job when you return to the work environment. we must therefore protect the worker who decides to take parental leave so that when he or she returns to work, he or she can not only return to his or her rightful job but also benefit from parental leave protection. finally, we also propose an extension of the age and duration of leave, because those who have children know this a child does not stop at 6 years old. unfortunately, a child, he continues to grow, and i feel like saying "luckily a child continues to grow". we must therefore also work on the age and duration of parental leave. all these recommendations are made, and i think they should help both the social partners in finding agreements on such parental leave, but also the commission in the work it is doing in the framework of the roadmap on work-life balance". i hope the commissioner will support these proposals.
i'm the reporter. mr president, thank you very much for your speech, madam commissioner, i know that we are working on this issue of reconciling private and professional life. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues for the work they have done in reaching the various compromises in this report. i hope it will be widely shared in the vote. i simply remind those who question the union's competence in this area that the directive has been in existence since 1996 and that this directive has not been challenged in relation to the union's competence. we must indeed claim this competence.
in writing. at this plenary session we will be required to give our opinion on the report to assess the application of the directive on parental leave. this is an important report which attempts to remedy the current shortcomings of this directive. i would like to address two points raised in this report. first, the low proportion of fathers who take parental leave in europe. in 2010, only 2.7% of all people who took parental leave were fathers. this is completely inadequate and the european commission and the member states, in consultation with the social partners, must make the necessary corrections to encourage fathers to take up this parental leave. but this report does not deal only with parental leave. it also called on the european commission to present an ambitious new proposal on maternity leave which would promote a better reconciliation of work and private life. i am glad that i have taken this position from the beginning. for these reasons i shall vote in favour of this report in plenary without hesitation.
what is a 'home'? this is the definition of the american writer gladys m. hunt: home is a safe place, where you don't have to fear an attack, a place of trusted relationships and affirmation. unfortunately for the crimean tatars, their homeland is no longer that safe place. they have experienced deportation, genocide, lawlessness in exile. they fought against one of the most brutal regimes of the 20th century for their return and their national rights and they came back. no one expected that in the 21st century a state, let alone a permanent member of the un security council, would violate international law in such a flagrant way. today, the crimean tatars are again victims of discrimination and lawlessness, kidnapping and murder, forced recruitment into the russian army. the lack of democratic freedoms is forcing many to flee their homes again: 20,000 from crimea, nearly 5,000 from sevastopol. the resolution points out the crushing responsibility of the kremlin but also calls on our own institutions and member states not to weaken the pressure and therefore the sanctions. this proud people are counting on us.
author. the gambia, which promotes itself as "the land of the smiling coast", also has a grim face that tourists rarely see. under president jammeh, perhaps the worst dictator you've never heard of, the population is afraid to speak out about politics. they whisper better. the gambian secret service is spreading fear in the smallest villages and the farthest corners of the country. journalists, political opponents and even close associates of the president have been hunted down. and while the president is wasting his time in his luxurious apartment in the united states, many gambians are fleeing their country. they risk their lives at sea in dingy boats. the fact that the president declared his country an islamic republic late last year, thus violating the constitution, is very disturbing. we are looking at the gambian government, but also at the eu. this small african country deserves much more attention. the organisation of free and fair elections is a crucial first step towards restoring democracy and restoring the citizens' prospects for the future.
author. the gambia is full of contradictions. many colleagues have already said that here today. it wants to attract tourists, but it's repelling its own citizens. as one of the 15 poorest countries in the world, it has little to offer its young people. with no prospects and hungry, they seek happiness elsewhere. the brutal repression of a demonstration unfortunately adds to a long list of abuses. the protesters used a fundamental right to protest, but it ended in a massacre. the demonstration was yet another proof that freedom of expression is not doing well in the gambia. journalists, human rights activists, student leaders and lesbians are arbitrarily arrested, detained and tortured. the government is creating a climate of fear and oppression. that's why it's imperative that the country be kept on the map. we need to work with civil society and the african union. give the gambia a peaceful and democratic process. the country attracts tourists to dream, but for the people it's a nightmare. we liberals want freedom and respect for human rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i will only speak about the women whom i have had the opportunity to meet and who have been the victims of rape, allegedly perpetrated by djiboutian soldiers, these women who are only demanding their rights: the right to access justice, to an independent justice. my colleagues have spoken about the situation in djibouti. it is true that while djibouti is a partner in this part of africa - as our colleague has said - we cannot let the acts committed against these women and against anyone else who fights for their rights go unpunished: political rights, rights to freedom of expression, rights to dignity, simply the right to live.
i'm the reporter. i think there's no need to explain, it'll go faster.
in writing. ‒ smes currently pay 30% more taxes than multinational enterprises (mnes) on a pro rata basis. this is because ngos operate in different countries and use this to their advantage. of course, a distinction should be made between tax avoidance, which is clearly illegal, and aggressive tax planning, which is legal but contrary to the spirit of the law. it is particularly in the area of tax avoidance that the current legal framework is no longer sufficient. the member states currently lack the transparency needed to enforce the principle of paying taxes where profits are made. the bill calls for more transparency. this not only leads to effective enforcement of the national tax framework, but also supports the competitiveness of smes. however, this increased transparency will only help if member states have easier access to this information from other member states. only if mnes are transparent to national tax authorities can they meet their obligations regarding the mandatory exchange of tax information. i also see the automatic exchange of tax information as a positive step in the fight against aggressive tax planning. i therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which is crucial in the fight against aggressive tax avoidance and optimisation by large groups. this is an essential step towards transparency in order to restore fiscal fairness. country-by-country reporting requires multinationals to report to states their economic and tax information in each state or tax jurisdiction: activity, turnover, pre-tax profits, taxes paid, etc.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the commission's proposal for an automatic exchange of information on corporate taxation between national tax authorities. it is a further step towards tax transparency and an important step forward in the fight against unfair tax practices, in particular aggressive corporate tax planning. however, i do not think that this kind of progress can be achieved by the member states on an individual basis. this requires joint action. the european commission should therefore participate in the exchange of country-by-country reports and have access to the information exchanged between member states' tax authorities, which would allow it to assess whether member states' tax practices are in line with state aid rules. this is particularly important for smes operating in one country. the available data show that in general these companies are subject to an effective tax rate much closer to the statutory rates than that proposed for multinationals. in my view, national companies cannot be systematically disadvantaged because of their size or the absence of crossborder trade.
in writing. ‒ the automatic exchange of information on business taxation between national tax authorities is an important and necessary step. member states retain their prerogatives in terms of taxation but in a common area such as that of the european union it is essential to avoid national policies which are harmful to other member states. by increasing transparency, we will better combat unfair tax practices between member states and reduce harmful tax competition. it is in this context that the european parliament has adopted a proposal which obliges multinational companies (with a minimum of €750 million) to file a country-by-country report in the member state in which the parent entity is resident for tax purposes. this member state will then have to communicate to all the other member states the following information: turnover, profit, taxes paid, capital, retained earnings, tangible assets and number of employees.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament was called upon to give its opinion on the council proposal amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards automatic and mandatory exchange in the tax field. i have supported this report, but i cannot but regret the lack of ambition on the part of the european parliament. a lack of ambition that concerns two elements in particular. first of all, i regret that the european parliament has not voted in favour of a country-by-country declaration whose information could be made available to everyone. in view of the recent revelations in the field of taxation, it seems to me important to play the transparency card with our european citizens. secondly, i voted in favour of lowering the threshold for determining whether or not a group should submit a country-by-country return to the tax authorities. unfortunately, the majority of the european parliament chose to maintain the threshold of eur 750 000 000 of consolidated turnover in order to define whether or not a group of multinational companies was required to provide the tax administrations with the information required by the country-by-country declaration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. in recent years, the challenge posed by tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance has significantly increased and has become a major source of concern within the union and globally. the automatic exchange of information is an indispensable tool.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to make the exchange of tax information between member states more transparent. this is a step in the right direction in the fight against tax evasion.
in writing. the fight against tax evasion and avoidance has been high on the agenda following the panama papers. the people who are most affected by this are the individual citizens and the smes that do follow the rules. i therefore think it is important that we try to avoid such situations in the future. the only way to achieve this is through transparency and cooperation between member states. i therefore support the resolution which seeks to establish an automatic exchange of information on taxation. it is also important that the european commission should have better access to this information. new legislation will provide member states with the tools and means to achieve the above objectives. i believe that this will ultimately lead to fairer competition between firms, markets and member states.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this joint resolution which calls for stronger state controls and better traceability of fish and aquaculture products and from fisherman to consumer in order to avoid as much as possible any fraud or deception about the nature of fish and aquaculture products sold or consumed.
europe has a rich culinary tradition. good food and quality ingredients are part of our cultural life. the european also likes to know what he is eating at home or in a restaurant. therefore, a correct labelling of food products is good for consumer confidence. clear information supports a conscious purchase. openness about the origin of food also provides a competitive advantage for our european fisheries and benefits the economic development of coastal regions. moreover, a clear label has already proven its usefulness in preventing and addressing food incidents in the past. an efficient labelling system has the advantage that in the event of a food incident, it guarantees rapid traceability of the contamination and appropriate measures to contain the incident. the report calls for stronger monitoring by member states of the supply chain for fish and aquaculture products. a call for an eu label for fish and aquaculture products provides transparency on the origin of fishery products and on their quality and species integrity. the eu's fisheries and aquaculture label will also help to put a dam on illegal fishing.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today called for stronger measures on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in the catering and retail trade. the text of the resolution seeks to draw lessons from the results of several studies showing that fishery products sold on eu markets, including in restaurants of the eu institutions, are 'often incorrectly labelled'. the intentionally incorrect and fraudulent labelling of fish species is a violation of eu rules, including the common fisheries policy, and is liable to constitute a criminal offence. the resolution calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's fisheries policy is not distorted by the current crisis. the text also calls on the commission to exploit the potential of dna barcodes, which could help identify a species by dna sequencing, to improve traceability.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution we express our deep concern and dissatisfaction with the results of several studies which have shown that fishery products sold on eu markets, including in eu institutions' restaurants, are often incorrectly labelled. the intentional and fraudulent mislabelling of fish species is a violation of european regulations, including the common fisheries policy, and is liable under national law to constitute a criminal offence! the member states must be more vigilant!
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution. fraudulent and incorrect labelling is a clear violation of the european fisheries policy and is misleading to the consumer. the commission and the member states are encouraged to take decisive action to improve the protection of european consumers.
in writing. the european union is the world's largest market for fish products. it is therefore important that this market is regulated in parallel. to date, there are still breaches of existing legislation. the mislabelling of fish is a particularly frequent problem. i therefore support this resolution and the call on the member states to take action against this. to achieve this, a clear, transparent and harmonised system is needed. it is of great importance that any form of labelling conveys clear, accurate and understandable information to the consumer. such a system, which would give a better picture of the quality of the products purchased, could also have a stimulating effect on coastal areas and the economies that depend on them.
in writing. ‒ when the people's republic of china joined the wto in 2001, it was classified as a non-market economy, which limited its full access to the markets of other wto members. however, the accession protocol envisaged that subject to political and economic conditions it would be granted market economy status (mes) 15 years later (i.e. end of 2016), if it fulfilled the conditions. this classification would have the effect of preventing other countries from imposing punitive duties on products produced in china under dumped conditions. from the eu's point of view, five criteria must be met to enjoy market economy status. however, as china continues to fail to meet these, it cannot, and rightly so, be treated like any other standard wto member. in view of the concerns of eu businesses and trade unions about the negative consequences of such a mws for eu jobs, the environment and sustainable economic growth, this resolution is to be welcomed. already today, and without mes, china's overcapacity, for example in the steel sector, has serious social and economic implications in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i co-signed and of course approved this joint resolution which stresses that china is not a market economy and therefore asks the commission to oppose any unilateral decision to grant china market economy status. the resolution also calls on the commission to take due account of the concerns expressed by the industrial sector, trade unions and other stakeholders in the union regarding the impact on employment, the environment, standards and sustainable economic growth in the union. the commission also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. this joint resolution is an important first step, but we must now ensure that political pressure on the commission and the council is maintained and intensified. this is the case for thousands of jobs in the union.
in writing. ‒ as things stand, i am opposed to any unilateral decision to grant china market economy status. although an important trading partner of the eu, china clearly does not meet the criteria of a market economy. i believe that until that happens, its exports to the eu should be treated in a 'non-standard' way in terms of dumping and subsidies. state subsidisation, china's excess production capacity and the resulting low-priced exports are already having very strong and very negative social, economic and environmental consequences in the eu. at present, 56 of the 73 existing anti-dumping measures in the eu apply to imports from china. a change in the status of the chinese economy would worsen this situation. i therefore invite the commission to work with the other major trading partners to find a balanced response that is compatible with the wto. i also stress the urgency of reforming the eu's trade defence instruments, in particular the anti-dumping duty.
in writing. ‒ our delegation supports this joint resolution on china's market economy status. we expressly state that the country does not yet meet the five criteria for market economies set by the eu. as long as this is not met, china cannot be granted market economy status. the country is seeking to be officially recognised as a market economy by the world trade organisation (wto) in december. this would make it much more difficult to continue the current european approach to chinese dumping. the commission therefore concluded that the chinese domestic prices were not representative of the prices of the union industry. the lack of competition on a level playing field for our european producers can therefore potentially mean a heavy loss of jobs and prosperity in the eu. china today does not yet function as a fully-fledged free market and cannot be accorded the status of a market economy. we ask the commission to take this into account when preparing its proposal and after having read the economic impact assessment. we also call for the modernisation of european trade protection instruments to be accelerated in order to keep european industry competitive with its trading partners.
in writing. ‒ in 2001, china joined the wto as a non-market economy. as it did not meet the criteria of a market economy, the accession protocol provided for several temporary derogations from wto rules. those derogations will expire at the end of 2016. many of them have already expired. but china is still not a market economy at present. it meets only one of the five criteria defined by the eu. china is a key strategic partner for the eu. however, for it to remain and for good relations to be maintained, we must ensure that the eu has the capacity to effectively combat unfair dumping practices. the european commission will shortly publish an impact assessment on this issue. i am concerned about the adverse impact that the end of the derogations will have on our economy. i therefore call on the council to define its position urgently on the reform of european tools to combat dumping in international trade. as a liberal, i want to stress the importance of respecting the rules in a globalised economy. if these are not respected, we must have effective tools to respond appropriately.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted by a very large majority an ambitious resolution on china's market economy status. a resolution which the european commission cannot ignore when it makes a choice as to whether to grant china market economy status and the method of calculating anti-dumping duties to be applied to unfair exports from china. the european parliament does not consider china to be a market economy. moreover, it meets only one of the five technical criteria defined by the european union for market economy status. that is why i fully support the european parliament's position that a specific anti-dumping calculation method should continue to be applied to unfair exports from that country. the resolution also stressed the 'imminent' need to reform the eu's trade defence instruments. we need to defend our european industry against unfair competition from other countries. it is high time that the council took up its responsibilities in this matter, otherwise our industry and its workers will continue to bear the consequences.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. it is important to stress that the eu-china strategic partnership must be based on fair trade relations, in full respect of wto rules, mutual respect and fair and equitable cooperation, and aim to improve human rights and labour rights standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on china's market economy status. we find that china still does not meet the prescribed criteria for market economies. as long as this is not met, china cannot be granted market economy status.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on china's market economy status. i am well aware that the eu concluded an agreement with china in december 2001 regarding the granting of this status in 2016. this is a complex problem with multiple facets. we must look at the legal implications and there are major interests at stake for european industry, but also for our trade relationship with china, one of our most important trading partners. it is mainly about how we deal with chinese dumped goods in our market. we must also ensure that the european commission's proposal on this subject is also in line with the eu's international commitments.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this resolution which calls on the foreign affairs council in its development configuration to adopt, before the united nations high-level political forum on sustainable development in july, a common and coherent eu position, taking into account the position of the european parliament as expressed in this resolution. it is crucial that the union presents a common position when we know that the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals constitute a new international commitment to eradicate poverty, redefine and modernise our development strategies for the next 15 years and deliver results.
in writing. the challenges we face call for the development of a comprehensive sustainable development strategy within the european union to translate the 17 sustainable development goals into action. this strategy must be inclusive in my view, taking into account the positions of all development actors, covering all relevant areas of domestic and external policies, involving the private sector as a development actor, proposing integrated solutions to preserve the indivisible nature of the 2030 agenda. it is essential for the union's credibility and its leadership to present a common position.
in writing. ‒ i supported the text of this resolution. i also supported an amendment expressing particular concern about the negative impact on the objectives of sustainable development of future trade agreements such as ttip, the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) and the agreement on trade in services (tac). the amendment therefore called on the european commission to ensure that all trade policies are in line with human rights and the sustainable development goals. however, it was not retained by the majority.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution by a positive vote. we are hereby asking the commission to submit a proposal for the elaboration of a comprehensive sustainable development strategy covering all relevant areas of internal and external policies, with a detailed timetable up to 2030, a mid-term review and a specific procedure ensuring full involvement of parliament, and a concrete implementation plan to coordinate the achievement of the 17 objectives, 169 targets and 230 global indicators. the importance of the universality of the objectives and the fact that the european union and its member states are committed to implementing all the objectives fully, in practice and in spirit, should be emphasised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because the 2030 agenda for sustainable development seeks to build on the millennium development goals that we have not achieved in the past. the european union must play a leading role in improving the world at global level.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this resolution is to increase transparency on the origin of processed and certain types of unprocessed meat and dairy products. the aim is to rebuild consumer confidence in the food industry after the scandals of recent years. i am in favour of greater transparency in food. consumers have the right to know where these products are made and what they contain. as far as meat products are concerned, i am in favour of full traceability. since belgium has already successfully implemented these, the move towards eu-wide mandatory indication of origin would be quite feasible. the situation is different for dairy products. the full traceability of dairy products represents a disproportionate economic barrier for dairies established in border regions. in border regions, dairies often source their milk from different countries, making it very difficult or almost impossible to separate milk products from different member states. i finally refrained.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution which recalls that parliament is in favour of the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat in processed foods and that such indication should also be made mandatory for meat other than beef, pork, sheep, goat and poultry meat, for milk, milk used as an ingredient in dairy products, and for unprocessed foodstuffs, products containing only one ingredient and ingredients constituting more than 50% of a foodstuff. this is not only a demand of a large majority of europeans, but also measures to organise the traceability of products and thus promote accountability and transparency.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted against the resolution on mandatory origin labelling of, among other things, milk and meat as an ingredient. we are calling for further work on the voluntary labelling of origin, which is already being applied in a cost-effective way. that is also the view of the european commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade in agricultural products is not affected by the current situation. origin labelling indicates the origin but does not increase quality or traceability and does not prevent fraud. it also has a taste for protectionism, which is contrary to the principles of the single european market and is particularly detrimental to smaller export-oriented regions such as flanders and border regions. the operational and practical feasibility is an obstacle, as are additional administrative costs and burdens which ultimately lead to a higher price for the consumer, who may consider origin labelling to be relatively important but not willing to pay extra for it. the n-va regrets the lack of realism in the adopted text and believes that the solution to the breach of consumer confidence is not to be found in additional rules, but in more controls, strict enforcement of existing agreements and heavier sanctions.
in writing. the report aims to encourage the commission to draw up legislative proposals on the indication of the place of origin on food labels for meat other than beef, pigmeat, sheepmeat, goatmeat and poultrymeat, and for milk and milk products. the commission has already completed its preparatory work. the time has come to clarify the policy to be pursued by means of legislative proposals. the consumer and the producer of the foodstuffs mentioned can both benefit from this. it is important that the consumer knows what he is buying and that the producer sees the quality of his product supported by a clear label. a food label that stands for transparency and quality is a market-enhancing measure. belgium showed at the time that transparency and a clear label preserve the confidence of the market and of consumers. it is recommended that the following elements be taken into account when labelling: firstly, the principles of administrative simplification must be respected. secondly, in complex and highly controlled processing processes such as the processing and production of consumer milk - a process of many suppliers - it should be sufficient to indicate the eu as the place of origin on the packaging.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text of this resolution which stresses in particular that the mandatory indication of the origin of milk sold as a consumer product or used as an ingredient in dairy products is a useful measure to protect the quality of dairy products, combat food fraud and safeguard employment in an already badly managed sector facing a serious crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by rail, road and inland waterway.
in writing. - i find it aberrant that the needs of the consumer are denied. the commission has consistently refused to mention the origin of processed meat and milk, while almost 90% of citizens are in favour of the indication of origin on food. the commission's officials are supposed to be among the remaining 10%... the commission claims that this would entail enormous additional costs. this is a lie, and its only purpose is to protect the multinational agro-food companies! the cost increase for companies already using this labelling was only 0.67%. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. it's a matter of transparency
in writing. ‒ this is an example of european regularization that goes beyond all goals. i resisted this. it leads to additional red tape, additional controls, higher costs and therefore higher consumer prices, a higher price that the consumer is not always willing to pay. this proposal is a solution to a non-existent problem. some manufacturers already voluntarily label the origin of ingredients to distinguish their products from others. this allows consumers to buy processed foods that already bear the origin of the ingredients. no additional eu legislation is needed.
in writing. i voted against the mandatory labelling. the administrative burden and controls for this origin labelling cause higher costs and therefore a higher price, a higher price which the consumer is not always willing to pay. in addition, some manufacturers already voluntarily indicate the origin of ingredients on their labels in order to distinguish their products from others. in other words, if the consumer really wants to know where the ingredients come from and also wants to pay for these extra costs, they can just do that. i am particularly concerned that the cost to smes would be very high. moreover, mandatory labelling would not prevent food fraud either.
in writing. ‒ parental leave is of paramount importance for the development of children and should therefore be further promoted. this is the key message of this own-initiative report. the commission's proposal is intended to provide for a comprehensive approach to the issue of maternity, paternity and parental leave. the report confirms that the current legal framework, which came into force 20 years ago, is outdated and in need of a comprehensive reform. from facilitating the re-entry into working life of women on maternity leave to promoting paternity leave, this report makes concrete proposals on how the legal framework can be improved and gender equality strengthened. this could also ultimately lead to a strengthening of eu competitiveness. that is another reason why this initiative is to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i have of course approved this resolution by my colleague maria arena. it points out that the provisions necessary for the transposition of directive 2013/62/eu on the application of the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded by businesseurope, ueapme, ceep and the etuc take different forms in different member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. they consider it essential that member states have the means of inspection necessary to monitor compliance with legislation on the protection of parental rights. the commission is therefore asked to undertake a study on this matter. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it for their own purposes.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because it is clear that in europe, despite the initiatives taken in favour of parental leave, a great disparity persists in terms of conditions of access to parental leave and financial compensation. i believe that the issue of paid leave is essential to rebalance the situation, especially for parents with low incomes. i believe that everyone, regardless of gender, should be guaranteed the right to parental leave, regardless of the sector of employment or the type of employment contract under which fathers and mothers are employed. i also encourage the commission to carry out a study on the state of application of the directive in the member states and to propose measures to encourage fathers to make greater use of parental leave and to encourage them to better reconcile their private and professional lives, in the best interests of their children.
in writing. the report calls on the commission to make proposals to promote work-life balance. the current legislation on family engagement is in need of change as it is no longer in line with the current social and economic context in which families organise their tasks. the advantage of parental leave is that women are no longer obliged to choose between child and career. this leave allows women's participation in the labour market to be proactively promoted. the idea that women take care of the children and men take care of the economy is outdated. men are no longer the sole breadwinners of the family, and women are given the prospect of better-paying jobs. yet, only 1 percent of men actually take paternity leave. if the aim of this report is to achieve a more equal distribution of family responsibilities between men and women, then further positive action is needed to promote gender equality here too. in certain exceptional circumstances, it is also desirable, when children become seriously ill or disabled, to extend or extend parental leave to allow a balance between family and professional life.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the application of directive 2010/18/eu transposing the revised framework agreement on parental leave concluded by the social partners. firstly, as regards the evaluation of this directive on parental leave, i note that there are considerable differences between member states. this is the case whether in terms of the maximum length of parental leave, the legal structure or the pay systems applicable during the leave period. i also regret the low proportion of fathers who take parental leave, since in 2010 they represented only 2.7% of all those who took such leave. that is not enough, of course. the report proposes several ways of addressing the shortcomings of the current directive on parental leave, such as the individualisation of rights granted by public policies, the revision of financial compensation systems, etc. beyond this evaluation of the parental leave directive, this report also addresses maternity leave and calls in particular on the commission to come forward with an ambitious new proposal which will promote a better reconciliation between work and private life, a demand which i have been advocating from the beginning. so i can only be happy about that.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today on the arena report, which examines the implementation of the parental leave directive by the various member states. the report identifies the shortcomings and makes recommendations, sending a clear message to the commission and member states to speed up implementation and improve the eu framework on parental leave. the report calls for an eu directive on a minimum of two weeks of paternity leave, measures to encourage fathers to take more parental leave, non-discrimination against parents who return to work after leave, adequate financial compensation for parental leave, and all this in a broader context that should promote a better work-life balance for both parents. it is a pity that the transfer of parental leave rights was not restricted. as long as this is possible, most of the burden will inevitably fall on women. nor is there any proposal to make a revised proposal for maternity leave. nevertheless, i voted for this report because it makes strong recommendations that are badly needed to build a more progressive society with a focus on a healthier work-life balance for all.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation believes that it is very important that we work on (more) employment opportunities for women and gender equality and that we also look at the interests of the child. the report, while aiming to achieve these objectives, does not take the right approach. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the family is not excluded from the family. more specifically, therefore, n-va cannot support, for example, an ambitious european directive on maternity leave. this does not, however, mean that member states should not consider ways of facilitating the combination of work, family and private life. the n-va therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mrs marie arena. it is clear that more than ten years after the transposition of the directive in the member states, the imbalance between men and women in the use of parental leave persists. it should also be noted that there is considerable variation between member states in the maximum duration of parental leave, its legal structure and the pay systems applicable during the period of leave. i believe that the issue of paid leave is essential if low-income parents and single parents are to enjoy the same benefits as all other parents. however, the various arrangements to encourage fathers to take parental leave are to be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it emphasises the right to parental leave for european citizens. the report also notes that fathers still do not take parental leave to the same extent as mothers. in the interests of gender balance in the workplace, i therefore support the call for a review of the relevant legislation and the creation of the right conditions to achieve a better balance in this area.
in writing. today's children are the future of europe. the success of future generations, however, depends largely on the education they receive. obviously, parents play a crucial role in this. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution. it exposes pertinent problems, such as the current situation whereby parental and maternity leave have so far been treated as two separate mechanisms, and the fact that the latter needs an urgent update. i think, for example, that the age of the child for whom parental leave can be taken should be raised. in addition, parents should be able to exercise their rights more flexibly. i am thinking here of the use of teleworking, homeworking and smart working, for example. this need for flexibility applies in particular to women, who would thus be able to remain more easily in the labour market. we need to provide sufficient incentives to involve men in the parenting process, but it is also important to leave the freedom of choice to the parents together. however, when taking action, we must always bear in mind that we want to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens at all times.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this report, which highlights the fact that 80% of the victims are women and that children represent approximately 16% of the registered victims of human trafficking. statistics also show that 70% of the victims of human trafficking and 70% of the suspected traffickers are eu nationals. the report underlines that asylum seekers, refugees and migrants are particularly vulnerable to trafficking and that special attention should be paid to women, children and other vulnerable groups. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution with a series of recommendations on the implementation of the directive on trafficking in human beings and the protection of victims. despite the union's efforts to combat this phenomenon, it is not being eradicated and is even on the rise according to some estimates. the resolution urges member states to better protect victims, especially women and children. it calls on them to ensure that police, judicial and medical personnel are adequately trained to identify vulnerable victims at an early stage and to provide them with the support they need: access to housing, medical care, translation and legal advice. the resolution also stresses that member states should grant victims of trafficking residence permits and access to the labour market in the member state in which they were trafficked. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this resolution on the gender dimension in human trafficking and the fight against this scourge. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the countries of the region. the text deals in particular with trafficking for sexual exploitation, the majority of whose victims are women and girls. in this connection, i would like to stress the crucial importance of taking adequate account of the new trends linked to the development of the internet. the internet offers new opportunities for criminal networks active in trafficking in human beings and enables the emergence of new forms of trafficking, including sexual exploitation. in order to combat this phenomenon, which is progressing at an alarming rate, the union cannot but take effective action, coordinated between member states and based on the best expertise in this field.
in writing. ‒ i voted this afternoon in favour of this report, which calls on the european commission to present a european strategy against gender-based violence, including a legislative proposal on violence against women, which also includes the 'fight against trafficking in human beings' dimension.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted today on the bearder report, which takes a gender perspective on the implementation of the directive on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims. although people of all gender types, ages and backgrounds are victims of trafficking, statistics show that women and girls are the majority (80%). the anti-trafficking directive focuses on prevention, protection of victims and criminal prosecution. it has a specific focus on gender and children. the bearder report provides facts and figures on the implementation of that directive in different member states and examines measures addressing the gender dimension in trafficking in human beings. it says prostitution is a member state competence but asks the european commission to investigate links between sexual services and human trafficking. it is also argued that the demand for such services can be reduced by criminalising the buyer rather than the provider. the refugee crisis has led to an increase in trafficking in human beings, with women and unaccompanied minors being the main victims. that's why it's important to provide safe and legal migration channels so that we can undermine human traffickers. it is important that we put pressure on the commission and the member states so that human trafficking can be eradicated. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation abstained from voting on this report. the n-va stands for an inclusive society with equal rights and obligations for all, and for a policy of equal opportunities tailored to and taking into account all the various target groups. this applies to all genders and particularly to women. it goes without saying that trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of men, women and children are serious criminal offences and violations of fundamental human rights. they deserve the utmost police and judicial attention at all policy levels. however, n-va should note that gender equality is constantly being used to expand migration-related rights. the report called for the creation of european humanitarian visas as a miracle cure against human trafficking. a tourist visa is used to fly asylum seekers to europe, with no maximum ceiling. we do not think that an open border policy is the desirable solution to such criminal practices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the member states should implement the directive more vigorously and seriously in this area. the union legal and policy framework recognises trafficking as a gender-specific phenomenon and requires member states to adopt measures that take into account gender differences. article 1 of the directive stresses the need to adopt a gender-sensitive approach to trafficking in human beings. women and men, girls and boys are vulnerable in different ways and are often trafficked for different purposes, and prevention, assistance and support measures must therefore take into account gender. finally, the eu strategy identifies violence against women and gender inequalities as one of the root causes of trafficking and introduces a series of measures addressing the gender dimension of trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the fight against trafficking in human beings requires better cooperation between all the member states of the european union. we must put a stop to human trafficking and find and punish those responsible.
in writing. i fully support the report by catherine bearder on the implementation of directive 2011/36/eu. although article 5 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union provides for the inviolable protection of the integrity of the individual, these rights are still violated on a daily basis. the report highlights important aspects of the problem, such as the fact that women and young girls are the main victims of trafficking. in addition, we face a number of difficulties, including those related to finding representative data, identifying victims and linking the right actions to a particular offence. the report gives very specific answers and recommendations, such as providing legal aid to the victims concerned and setting up hotlines and information campaigns to lower the threshold for them. it also rightly calls for increased exchanges and cooperation between member states. across the board, it also points out that there needs to be a general focus on women, children, refugees and lgbti people in solving this problem.
mr president, we shall now deal with the question of the commission's attitude to endocrine disruptors. what is peculiar about this situation is that the european institution, which is the guardian of the treaties, is trampling on these same treaties, at least in the opinion of our legal service. according to the latter, there is no doubt that the commission has not yet taken the measures required of it under article 266 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. we therefore call for a resolution, because it is the least that parliament can do to remind the commission of its duty. if a motion of censure is clearly a disproportionate instrument in this case, then passing a resolution is the least this parliament can do. what would we look like if we just had a conversation with each other? the commission can say that it is doing very well.
mr president, our group would strongly like to support the request of the greens, we support it fully. as has been mentioned, the court has already ruled against the commission for not applying the rules correctly and i think it is very important that we state that clearly to the commission in in a resolution. it is very important that they come up with strict rules on endocrine disruptors, not based on an unlawful impact assessment but based on scientific criteria.
mr president, we would like to explain: we do not support the request of the gue today. this is not because we do not think this is a serious matter, or might be a serious matter. it is not because we do not think we need full transparency on these issues. it is precisely because we think we need full transparency, and because we think to take this very seriously, that we need more time to look at these issues and these questions in depth – and then come back to the plenary, look at what is the best methodology to deal with this matter and by preference, have a good discussion in advance in the conference of presidents.
madam president, i think everyone agrees that e-commerce contributes to growth and job creation. two and a half million jobs in 2014, that speaks for itself. but in a european digital single market, it is unacceptable for traders to be able to deny access to their website, goods or services on the basis of someone's nationality or place of residence. however, a trader should have the right to sell under different conditions in different member states. in fact, companies enjoy economic and contractual freedom to undertake and adapt to local market conditions. so respect for basic market functioning, but no discrimination against consumers. the commission is proposing that 20% of the on-demand services offered by audiovisual services should be european productions. i say no to digital protectionism. we must cherish our european content, but give private digital companies the freedom to do business. the imposition of european quotas hinders this and does not guarantee quality production.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's information systems are updated and that the information society is not undermined. with privacy shield, we are now achieving a level of data protection never before achieved. it's a very big step in the right direction. the rights and legal protection of eu citizens in the transfer of data to the us are improving dramatically. however, some political groups and members of parliament still feel that only a copy of european law can suffice. but this is just not realistic. the united states is an independent nation and an important strategic ally of the eu, but we must not forget that it is not a member of the union. the commission has also been asked to provide further information on the implementation of the privacy shield. the new rules must also be able to stand up to a possible test by the court of justice, so that our companies and smes are not left in a situation of legal uncertainty. i and my group strongly believe that it is in the best interests of our businesses, the european economy and the privacy of eu citizens to have an operational privacy shield as soon as possible.
madam president, the european parliament is still going through the motions. the scientific criteria for endocrine disruptors must be established. health, believe me, is at the top of every citizen's priority list. the problem is therefore becoming more and more acute, and understandably so: a number of studies link the increase in cancers, diabetes, obesity and infertility to exposure to endocrine disruptors, among other diseases. in february you promised that the commission would come forward with proposals before the summer. that summer that began in may, so says a popular dutch song. i've been listening to you. it's the middle of june. okay, that's just before the beginning of the real summer and the longest day of the year. but at least it's really five minutes to midnight. the december 2013 deadline is already two and a half years behind us. the commission must keep its word. it owes that to the citizens. it's about credibility and trust. and the uncertainty has lasted long enough, for consumers as well as for producers. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. yes, i agree with the honourable member. we have indeed seen regrettable examples in the past. that is why i have given the commission a shot in the arm and said: look, it's really five minutes to midnight. we heard the promise in february, for the summer. it's the middle of june. that's just before summer. we will of course keep the commissioner on his promise, but we will also give him every opportunity.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of pollution by gases from nuclear power stations is a very good one. in my own region, flanders, for example, we have already taken several initiatives to this end, including the recent initiative 'flanders radically digital'. e-government and all that goes with it, such as e-identification, should be encouraged as much as possible. a question has already been raised, and rightly so, about the visibility of the existing instruments, which are often unknown to the public: i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. in the context of e-government, i also think it is very important that we make more and more use of the 'only once' principle, because the complex application procedures and the administrative burdens that go with them often represent a barrier for businesses and citizens. in this context, i think we should strive, especially within europe, for maximum data sharing between the different administrations.
i'm the reporter. madam president, finally, these two debates which follow touch on themes which are very close and which are linked to the question of poverty. we talked about energy poverty. here, it is more specifically about the gendered approach to poverty. what is the poverty situation of women in europe? unfortunately, more than 64 million women in europe are living in poverty today. 48% of them single women are unable to cope with unexpected expenses. these single women are considered to be the most vulnerable to poverty. single-parent families in which women are the head of household more often than men are also at greater risk of poverty and social exclusion, leading to a vicious cycle of poverty for their children and their families. today, 27% of european children are at risk of poverty. this represents 22 million children living in poverty. we have seen that the austerity measures, which are often blind austerity measures, taken in recent years in europe have accentuated inequalities and, also, the risks of poverty for women and children. the wage gap persists today. we also have the question of the working poor, precarious status and, finally, the pension gap, which represents a 39% gap and which leads to risks of poverty for older people and women. is it worth recalling that the europe 2020 strategy aims to reduce by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty? we are far from that today. we must break the vicious circle of poverty which today affects 127 million people in europe, including 22 million children. and it should be noted that, particularly as regards adults, women are more affected by this cycle. finally, we have put forward a series of recommendations to ensure that the cycle of poverty can be broken. the first recommendation calls for the guarantee of quality public services and free access to education, health and justice. it is indeed demonstrated that when public services are of good quality and have a good first line, there is a better efficiency and a better redistribution of wealth, which is a real social net to fight poverty. the second recommendation is to combat discrimination in employment, which is a source of poverty for women. we therefore ask that there be coordination of parental leave - maternity leave, paternity leave and parental leave - to combat the precarious situations experienced by women in precarious contracts. the third recommendation is that we should give serious thought to the minimum income as an instrument for combating poverty. so we are not asking today in the report that there should be a minimum income - although that could have been the case - but we are asking for an analysis of minimum income systems throughout europe and identifying good practice in this area as a tool to fight poverty. a fourth claim: when we don't know the phenomenon, we can't provide the solutions. we therefore call for more reliable statistical monitoring of the problem of poverty in europe today. we also ask that there should be a child guarantee system, as we have been able to achieve with the youth guarantee, that is to say that wherever there are important centres of poverty in europe today, it is absolutely necessary to provide budget lines and specific actions to combat child poverty in particular. finally, we are asking - and this is in connection with the report which was discussed just before - for social tariffs for basic necessities, such as access to energy and water, which will actually prevent us from falling into this poverty trap. finally, we ask that there be tax incentives to fight poverty. i would like to thank all the members who have taken part in drawing up this report for all the recommendations. it was a very constructive discussion and i hope that tomorrow it can be voted on by a large majority. this would send an important signal to the commission.
the rapporteur. madam president, our colleague has not paid attention to the figures. of the 120 million women in the world, 64 million are living in poverty. the 27 million were poor children in europe.
in writing. eurostat figures show that the number of women in poverty is consistently higher than that of men, currently at around 64.6 million women and 57.6 million men. it is also clear, as my colleague marie arena's resolution points out, that austerity policies have only widened this gap in recent years. the resolution stresses the priority of establishing working conditions which are favourable to family life. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, with the exception of the uk, which has a very limited scope. the resolution also stresses the major importance of quality public care services, particularly in promoting the integration of socially marginalised groups of women. the resolution calls for the development of mechanisms for the assistance and social pricing of the poorest, the empowerment of girls in social, economic, cultural and political life, the active promotion of a positive image of working mothers and the fight against the phenomenon of "penalisation of motherhood" identified by several studies.
in writing. in the european union, more women than men are affected by poverty. it affects 64.6 million women and 57.6 million men. it is also important to note that single-parent families are more exposed to poverty and social exclusion. the economic crisis and the various austerity policies that have followed in recent years have only made the situation worse by exacerbating inequalities. to break this dynamic, it is now essential that family-friendly working conditions, such as flexible working hours and the possibility of telecommuting, be put in place to ensure that women can be as active as men in the labour market. i also call for european legislative action to meet the needs of fathers and mothers on the different types of leave, whether maternity leave, paternity leave, parental leave or leave for carers.
madam president, commissioner, minister, all the findings are in the same direction. for the last 18 months we have been living under a price regime which has been falling steadily and which is abnormally low, being below the farmers' production costs. so, of course, the voluntary regulation of milk production, as proposed, is a small step in the right direction, but it is largely inadequate, because we need mandatory regulation, with penalties for member states that do not play along. if it is voluntary, there will always be those who will not play the game and who will, of course, frustrate the efforts of those who want to play it. better activation of article 222 is fundamental, with reasoned competition. but clearly, today, over-liberalisation is not working. it may seem archaic to argue for a return to quotas, with of course some adjustments for certain countries - i am thinking of italy in particular, which had a quota that was far too low in relation to the high quality production it needs. yet, adjusting quotas to economic realities is the only viable solution. the quotas worked for 25 years. since we abandoned them, it doesn't work anymore. i may be archaic, but i'm willing to be archaic by advocating for the return of dairy quotas.
mr president, the report as it stands today is a response to what the european commission has proposed earlier to improve the functioning of the internal market. i think everyone agrees today that the single market is not yet complete, and it is therefore a step in the right direction that this strategy pays much attention to those sectors where there is still a lot of work to be done. i am thinking in particular of the services sector. we must make it easier for consumers and businesses alike to move within that single market: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am glad that the principles of better regulation are also reflected in several places in a number of paragraphs in the text. on the other hand, i would like to express my concern about the paragraphs relating to taxation, because that is still a national competence. in general, i think that this report is a step in the right direction towards a better functioning internal market. i shall therefore vote in favour of the report.
mr president, madam commissioner, we socialists and democrats can be proud of the substantial improvements our group has made to mrs comi's report, in order to give a new social impetus to this text, which at its core summed up the commission's proposal very well. it was necessary to continue to guarantee a high level of consumer protection, equal treatment and the creation of sustainable jobs. beyond these aspects, i would like to highlight some priorities that are important to me and to our group in the single market strategy, namely equal protection for consumers buying online or offline, the definition of the concept of a social economy enterprise, but also a legislative proposal on the protection of geographical indications for non-agricultural products and, finally, the promotion of craft industries. as for the services passport, we must be vigilant, because it risks being a tool of unfair competition by promoting social dumping within the european union. do you want to be the gravediggers of a europe which is already sick of unfair competition in the internal market?
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to vote in favour of this report because it contains important elements, particularly for european consumers and workers. firstly, the introduction at european level of a compulsory system for the provision of essential information on handicrafts and industrial products. this system would be a real added value for consumers and i hope that the european commission will heed our call. finally, the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place is an important tool in combating market distortions. the citizens and workers of europe expect europe to fight social dumping more effectively, and the respect of this principle in the context of the posting of workers would be a first step forward. in view of all this, it seemed to me important that the european parliament should support this text. i also hope that the commission will be able to show ambition on both these subjects. thank you for your attention.
in writing. ‒ seven years after the creation of bitcoins, it seemed appropriate to make an owninitiative report on this new type of currency. this technology, in principle, allows a decentralization of the means, fast, flexible and fairly secure to record any kind of transaction and the history of previous transactions in a "distributed ledger". the main possibilities of virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology (dlt) in the area of payments relate to reducing transaction costs and ease of use while ensuring resilience and privacy levels. in this context, it should be noted that transaction costs for payments remain surprisingly high. on average, more than 7% of crossborder remittances are consumed by transfer costs. in the medium term, competition could be enhanced by the introduction of a single, non-exclusive and interoperable portfolio. the report highlights: facilitating micropayments for online purchases of goods; the potential of dlt at european level; difficulties related to pseudo anonymity; the creation of a task force under the commission to assess potential assessments of dlt and virtual currencies; transparency and consumer awareness; and the fight against money laundering.
in writing. the development of new technologies is a source of innovation and profound transformation of our society. the development of virtual currencies is one example of this, and we do not yet fully know its long-term potential. there are currently more than 600 virtual currency systems in the world. we know that this technology could reduce transaction costs and access to finance. however, risks may also be highlighted due to, inter alia, the lack of reliability linked to the absence of governance structures or the risk of financial instability linked to the risk of high volatility of virtual currencies and the creation of new speculative bubbles. in addition, virtual currencies could become a means of promoting the black market and money laundering. we must therefore regulate it in an appropriate way to avoid breaking the innovative potential of this new technology. i therefore welcome the fact that this report calls on the commission to set up a cross-cutting study group to better understand this phenomenon, to analyse the risks and benefits and to design stress tests to ensure its stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which states that the european framework for virtual currencies, such as bitcoin, and the blockchain technologies underlying them is not necessary at this stage. i think, however, that it is more necessary to monitor these technologies by setting up a task force at the level of the european commission. such a working group could be called upon to monitor the evolution of these innovative technologies without restricting their ability to significantly reduce the cost of financial transactions, while ensuring that they are not misused for criminal purposes. (blockchain technology is a decentralized database stored on multiple servers that allows for quick and secure verification and documentation of financial transactions despite the absence of a central clearing authority.)
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this well-balanced text. we recognise the potential benefits associated with virtual currencies and related technologies for consumers, businesses, charities and the wider economy, including increased speed and efficiency and reduced costs for payments and transfers, including cross-border payments and transfers, and potentially promoting financial inclusion and easier access to finance and financial resources for the business sector and smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because virtual currencies can make a positive contribution to the well-being of citizens and economic development, including the financial sector. it may, for example, entail reductions in the operational and transaction costs of payments. this could, according to an optimistic estimate, reduce the total cost of transfers by up to eur 20 billion. we must ensure that this currency is not misused by criminal circles.
in writing. ‒ just as i had approved in april 2015 the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) support for the former moryglobal sas-france entity, mory-ducros, i voted for this contribution of eur 5 146 800 to help the 2 093 people made redundant by moryglobal. the road transport sector is still struggling to recover from the 2008 crisis, with activity still more than 10% below pre-crisis levels.
in writing. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to the amount of eur 5 146 800 for france to support the reintegration into the labour market of 2 132 workers made redundant at moryglobal sas. the economic and financial crisis has hit the road freight transport sector hard. this contribution will provide workers with personalised services to support them in their career transition. the main objective is to help them acquire the skills they need to stay in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for france. it is recalled that france submitted an application egf/2015/010 fr/moryglobal for a financial contribution from the fund, following redundancies in the economic sector covered by nace revision 2 division 49 (land transport and pipeline transport) and division 52 (warehouses and transport auxiliary services) in the whole of metropolitan france. 2 132 workers were made redundant following the court-ordered liquidation of moryglobal. these same redundancies were linked to the general trend of decreasing physical production in europe, which led to a reduction in transport volumes and a price war in the road freight transport sector, which in turn led to a steady deterioration of operating margins and a series of losses for the sector in france since 2007. france and its workers are entitled to a financial contribution of eur 5 146 800 under this regulation. i would remind you that the assistance from the fund granted to 2 513 former mory-ducros workers, which was approved in april 2015, amounts to eur 6 052 200.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of this mobilisation of the european fund. the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global economic and financial crisis and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because france is entitled to a european financial contribution of eur 5 146 800, which is 60% of the total cost of eur 8 528 000, to cover the bankruptcy of moryglobal and the dismissal of 2150 workers.
in writing. ‒ greece, economically weakened, has had to take drastic and unpopular measures to pay its external debt. thousands of businesses have closed their doors and contributed to the rise in unemployment and thus to the decline in consumption, especially of basic food products, the business sector of the supermarket larissa company. the conditions of the regulation being met, i naturally voted for this contribution of eur 6 468 000 which will help to reintegrate 557 workers.
in writing. i am in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund to the tune of eur 6 468 000 for greece to support the reintegration into the labour market of 557 dismissed workers, including 543 young unemployed people who are not in education or training. this is due to the crisis in greece, which has reduced the purchasing power of greek households and made it impossible for the larissa supermarket to retain its staff. these young people would thus have the opportunity, through the fund, to benefit from personalised services such as career guidance measures under the youth employment initiative. more broadly, workers and young people without any training could receive €15,000 to help them start their own businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of funds for greece. it is recalled that greece submitted an application, egf/2015/011 gr/supermarket larissa, for a financial contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund, following redundancies in the economic sector covered by nace revision 2 division 47 (retail trade) in the nuts 2 regions of central macedonia (κεντρική μακεδονία) and thessaly (θεσσαλία). 557 workers had been made redundant and 543 young people under 30 were unemployed, not in education or training (neet). under the special fund regulation, greece is entitled to a financial contribution of eur 6 468 000, representing 60% of the total cost of eur 10 780 000.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken in favour of this mobilisation of the european fund. the union has put in place legislative and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns or the global economic and financial crisis and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because greece has submitted an application for financial assistance following the bankruptcy and the dismissal of 557 employees of supermarket larissa abee. 543 young people under 30 from the same regions are not in employment, education or training and are expected to participate in the measures undertaken with this money, such as training, job skills etc.
in writing. - i voted for the waiver of immunity so that all the light can be made in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr gianluca buonanno's immunity, so that the italian judiciary can have all the documents necessary to carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, on the understanding that the investigation has no direct link with mr buonanno's function as an mep, and is not motivated by any intention to cause harm.
in writing. i voted in favour of the waiver of this individual's immunity so that he can explain himself for these multiple evils, of which he is once again the author, before the justice of his country.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of my colleague's immunity in order to help him in the criminal case he has brought against an anonymous caller.
in writing. ‒ i supported the one-year exemption that the european commission proposes to grant to sweden for the relocation of asylum seekers. it should be noted that sweden has the highest number of asylum seekers per capita in the union. in march 2016, it was home to more than 170 000 applicants, including 36 000 unaccompanied minors. it is therefore legitimate to grant this exemption at a time when some member states are still extremely lax in their reception of migrants and in the implementation of the relocation process.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the migration flows currently facing the union, i would like to highlight the historic role played by sweden in receiving asylum seekers. i regret, however, the approval today by the european parliament of sweden's one-year suspension of the relocation mechanism for asylum seekers in greece and italy. while this mechanism, a symbol of solidarity between member states in the field of asylum, is not yet functioning as it should, the time is not right to weaken it further. i believe that by endorsing this derogation we are sending the wrong political signal at a time when the solutions proposed to ensure the coherence and effectiveness of our asylum policy must be effective.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the proposal from the commission to the council (com ((2015) 0677), having regard to article 78 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, pursuant to which it was consulted by the council (c8-0017/2016) and on the basis of the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (a8-0170/2016), the european parliament approved the commission proposal as amended and invited the commission to amend its proposal accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr skeller, on the proposal for a council decision establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of sweden, in accordance with article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1523 and article 9 of council decision (eu) 2015/1601 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece.
in writing. ‒ since the abolition of the safe harbour, there has been a legal vacuum regarding the exploitation of personal data of european citizens by the united states. the privacy shield agreement negotiated between the commission and the united states provides some remedies to this situation. it establishes a complaints mechanism for european citizens and a us mediator to whom the european side can appeal in the event of a dispute. the european parliament will, however, have to remain extremely vigilant in ensuring effective protection of the personal data of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this resolution on transatlantic data flows. with the privacy shield, which is supposed to regulate the flow of transatlantic data for commercial purposes, about to be closed, it was essential that parliament take a stand on this issue. this is an extremely important issue and an integral part of our relationship with the united states. the privacy shield is the successor to the safe harbor, which was invalidated by the court in 2015, and must provide the best possible safeguards for the protection of personal data transferred to the united states. while improvements have undoubtedly been made to the system as it existed under the safe harbour, some shortcomings persist. the commission should therefore continue its dialogue with the us authorities in order to make the best possible use of the shortcomings highlighted by parliament here, particularly those relating to the mass collection of data.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted in favour of this resolution, having regard in particular to directive 95/46/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 24 october 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, having regard to council framework decision 2008/977/jha of 27 november 2008 on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, having regard to directive (eu) 2016/680 of the european parliament and of the council of 27 april 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the authorities with jurisdiction for the purposes of preventing and detecting criminal offences, investigating and prosecuting criminal offences and the free movement of such data, and to commission framework decision 2008/977/jha of 26 november 2008 establishing a framework for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the authorities with jurisdiction for the prevention and detection of criminal offences, the investigation and prosecution of criminal offences and the execution of criminal penalties, and the free movement of such data, and the commission decision 2000/57/jha of 26 july 2008 establishing a framework for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the european parliament and the council of 27 july 2013 (see commission decision 2000/520jha of 26 july 2013).
in writing. ‒ i voted for the s&d resolution. data protection means the protection of the persons to whom the information processed belongs, and such protection is one of the fundamental rights recognised by the union. the protection of personal data, respect for privacy and communications, the right to security, the right to receive and impart information and the freedom to conduct a business are all fundamental rights which must be respected and balanced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am satisfied with the efforts of the commission and the us government to make significant improvements to the privacy shield. because the transatlantic relationship is so important, it is necessary that we use the right and the same definitions in the context of privacy; the eu and the us must reach a comprehensive solution that respects the right to data protection and the right to privacy. this resolution once again emphasizes this. the privacy shield should be consistent with the eu primary and secondary legislation and with the relevant rulings of both the european court of justice and the european court of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report on the commission communication entitled 'a new deal for energy consumers'. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy sector is not left behind. in this context, the provision of stable, affordable, efficient and sustainable energy to citizens, as well as energy-efficient products, services and quality buildings, should be a priority. the energy union must also help to eradicate energy poverty, protect consumers from abusive or unfair practices and promote energy-saving measures.
the energy market in europe is in full swing. in order to achieve our energy and climate objectives, we will eventually have to evolve towards an economy based entirely on the use of clean and renewable energy. the report calls for the consumer to be given a privileged role in the energy market. the energy market in europe has been liberalised, but now the main task is to create a transparent and competitive retail market tailored to the consumer. the right of customers to have access to their energy consumption and the rates charged to them on the invoice even more quickly and clearly - not just once a year at the final invoice. it has been shown that 'real-time information' motivates consumers to save up to 8% on their consumption and thus also on their invoices. freedom of choice of supplier also implies that consumers should be able to switch quickly and free of charge to competing suppliers. it is also a good thing to give consumers who produce their own renewable energy at home better access to the energy market. because the more producers supply energy, the more competition there is and the more interesting the bill becomes for the end user.
in writing. ‒ in its recommendations on the 'new deal' for consumers in the energy market, the european parliament advocated a set of measures to strengthen consumers' market power in energy production and energy tariffs. to help consumers to play a more active role in the energy market, we have proposed introducing new management models such as collective purchasing systems and innovative financial instruments to stimulate increased use of self-production, self-consumption and energy-efficient tools. to ensure transparency in energy prices, we have called for more simplified invoices in terms of understanding contracts, measures to help consumers compare offers, information on the most appropriate and advantageous tariffs based on their consumption history, etc. finally, we called for a common definition of energy poverty, based on the idea that access to affordable energy is a fundamental social right, and asked the commission to prepare an action plan by 2017 to tackle energy poverty.
in writing. - i said yes to that text. the ultimate goal should be an economy based entirely on renewable energy, which can only be achieved by reducing our energy consumption, making full use of the 'energy efficiency first' principle (the 'first fuel') and prioritising energy savings and demand-side measures over supply-side measures, in order to achieve our climate objectives in line with the paris agreement scenario (1.5 °c), as well as energy security, competitiveness and, in particular, lower energy bills.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, together with my delegation. the consumer will be at the centre of the energy network in the energy union. when the market is free to play, it is up to the consumer to make the best choice that suits him or her best. the market incentives will ensure that consumers can use energy more efficiently and that the right price is paid without market distortions. however, a market also entails certain risks for consumers who do not have the capacity to take account of this amount of information or for certain consumers who cannot pay the energy bill. the report identifies the right pain points and, while respecting subsidiarity, calls on the member states and regions to take account of this group of consumers. this report remains relatively balanced and provides a good basis for legislative work in the context of the energy union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to give consumers more power when it comes to energy purchases. these include price comparison methods and better information on energy efficiency, more eu funds to promote energy efficiency, self-generation of energy and other measures that can reduce the energy bill for vulnerable households and citizens. this is already possible in belgium, but not everywhere in the eu. in an age of high-technology available to all of us, citizens must be able to generate their own renewable energy and, above all, become more energy efficient. they must be able to become 'micro' energy producers themselves, which can only benefit the free market: that's what we mean by prosumers.
in writing. ‒ eurostat figures show that the number of women in poverty is consistently higher than that of men, currently at around 64.6 million women and 57.6 million men. it is also clear, as my colleague marie arena's resolution points out, that austerity policies have only widened this gap in recent years. the resolution stresses the priority of establishing working conditions which are favourable to family life. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to health. the resolution also stresses the major importance of quality public care services, particularly in promoting the integration of socially marginalised groups of women. the resolution calls for the development of mechanisms for the assistance and social pricing of the poorest, the empowerment of girls in social, economic, cultural and political life, the active promotion of a positive image of working mothers and the fight against the phenomenon of 'penalisation of motherhood' identified by several studies.
in writing. poverty has many causes and can affect anyone. almost 65 million women in europe are facing poverty. this puts their share significantly and worryingly above the number of men facing poverty. europe has set itself the goal of controlling poverty statistics. the report calls on the commission to take the gender dimension of poverty seriously and to implement policies that tackle the causes of poverty among women. with equal access to the labour market, equal pay for equal work and positive measures to facilitate work-life balance, we are making a major step forward in making people financially independent and more resilient. the right to quality education for all children, so that they can take charge of their own future later in life, regardless of their background, remains the key to avoiding generational poverty.
in writing. ‒ i am convinced that it is important to take the gender dimension into account when tackling poverty. that is why i supported the report entitled 'poverty: a perspective for equality between men and women'. by voting on this report, the european parliament is making a clear appeal to the european commission. in this report i shall focus on the european parliament's request to the commission to submit a new proposal for a directive on maternity leave and a proposal for paid paternity leave. i regret, however, that some of the proposals did not receive the necessary support from the european parliament to be incorporated into the text. i would mention in particular the idea of introducing a reduced vat rate for goods which are essential for women, such as sanitary towels and pads.
in writing. the n-va delegation abstained on this report. the n-va stands for an inclusive society with equal rights and obligations for all, and for a policy of equal opportunities tailored to and taking into account all the various target groups. this applies to all genders, particularly women and girls, but also to people with disabilities, older people, lgbtiqs, etc. we cannot accept any violation of this equality, whether at work or in private life. the fight against poverty is an important theme for the n-va. our poverty policy is designed to help people in poverty to become self-reliant. as the report states, the n-va considers work to be an important means of getting out of poverty: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. at the same time, respect for national competences is very important for the n-va. it is not for the eu to adopt measures such as an eu minimum income or eu definitions of work.
in writing. - i voted for the text of my colleague arena. according to the latest eurostat data, the number of women in poverty is consistently higher than that of men, with currently around 64.6 million women compared to 57.6 million men. this shows that poverty affects women and men differently, that women were particularly affected by the risk of poverty in the 28 member states of the union in 2014, with a rate of 46,6% before social transfers and 17,7% after social transfers, and that poverty rates for women vary considerably from one member state to another. irrespective of the specificities of the risk groups concerned (elderly women, single women, single mothers, lesbian women, bisexual women, transgender women and women with disabilities), poverty rates for migrant women and women from ethnic minorities are the same throughout the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because women are still lagging behind in terms of pay on the labour market, namely 16.3% compared to men. in addition, many of them are women who work part-time to support family life. the report also seeks to develop measures to support men in taking on an active father role, so as to allow for a fairer distribution of family responsibilities and to provide women with the opportunity to participate on an equal footing in the labour market. the report also refers to the situation of refugee children and the need for the eu and the member states to provide them with education.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this report which calls for action on unjustified non-tariff barriers within the internal market which often harm smes and micro-enterprises. it should be remembered, however, that while europe must be based on an efficient and dynamic internal market in order to create jobs, the social dimension cannot be forgotten.
in writing. the single market is one of the eu's greatest achievements. however, even though tariff barriers have been eliminated, non-tariff barriers encouraged by the protectionism of several bureaucracies are still very much present. these barriers, when not justified on grounds of public policy or public interest, must be removed as they constitute obstacles to a functioning market that serves all businesses, including smes, and meets the needs of consumers. we do not seek to harmonize practices at any cost but rather to promote mutual recognition. the single market could be realised through better cooperation between member states and a faster and more uniform transposition of european directives into national law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the vat directive to include the taxation of energy products.
in writing. ‒ the package of proposals for a digital single market, presented by the european commission, was welcomed by the european parliament. we have generally welcomed the commission's proposals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. after outlining the commission's initiatives to make it easier for consumers and businesses to buy and sell goods and services online across the eu, digital single market commissioner andrus ansip said these "necessary" measures were truly paving the way for the digital single market. in response to our comments, he said he was aware that the final outcome of the legislative process would necessarily be a 'compromise'. however, he said that cooperation with the ep would be "fruitful". following!
in writing. - i followed our emissary on this text. i am aware that, despite the abolition of tariff barriers on 1 july 1968, the free movement of goods and services has continued to be impeded by non-tariff barriers, such as technical standards and regulatory or non-regulatory requirements which, at national level, are unjustifiably applied to products, service suppliers or service contracts, or by bureaucracy. the strengthening of the single market requires urgent action at both union and member state level to remove these non-tariff barriers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because smes are still too often prevented by various national laws from being able to invest or work easily in another eu country. they cannot grow and the european single market cannot be perfected.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i approved, recalls that the single market can be deepened with the aim of gains in sustainable growth, job creation, research and the environment. this requires further harmonisation of legislation. the reduction of administrative burdens and compliance costs for enterprises, in particular smes, should also contribute to this. simplification of legislation, but at the same time ensuring high standards of consumer, employee, health and environmental protection.
in writing. ‒ the single market is a key driver of growth and job creation in europe. we therefore support the european commission's strategy to deepen this cornerstone of eu integration, but we are convinced that this cannot be seen as separate from the quest for a fairer market. social dumping not only erodes our social achievements but also makes it difficult for honest companies to compete. it is therefore essential that every worker has the right to equal pay for equal work at the same workplace and access to the highest level of protection in the field of safety and health at work. european commissioner marianne thyssen has a strong case to modernise the legislation, close the loopholes and bring the working conditions of posted workers into line with those of local workers. we in the european parliament fully support this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's own-initiative report on the single market strategy because it contains important elements, particularly for european consumers and workers. first of all, i am pleased to see that the european parliament has been in favour of the introduction at european level of a compulsory system for the provision of essential information on handicrafts and industrial products. this system would be a real added value for consumers and i hope that the commission will heed our appeal. i am also very pleased that parliament has voted in favour of the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place as an important tool in the fight against market distortions. the citizens and workers of europe expect europe to fight social dumping more effectively, and the respect of this principle in the context of the posting of workers would be a first step forward. in view of all this, it seemed to me important that the european parliament should support this text. i hope that the commission will be able to show ambition on both these subjects.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed the position of my colleague mr comi, accompanied by socialist amendments to defend the rights of workers. the completion of the single market has always been and remains a top political priority in the european integration process. in recent years, the situation has changed dramatically. the difficulties to be overcome are becoming more and more pressing and are weighing heavily on the internal market: on the one hand, the rising unemployment of european citizens, especially young people, while at the same time the fabric of enterprises and the competitiveness of the latter are weakening, and on the other hand, the problem of immigration. very important progress has been made in several areas under the barroso commission. the present situation, however, calls for even more pragmatic and effective action. in a short time, the juncker commission has already rolled out important and ambitious initiatives such as the investment plan for europe, the energy union, the digital single market strategy and the capital markets union.
in writing. ‒ i support the objectives of the commission's internal market strategy for goods and services: 'improving the single market: more opportunities for people and businesses". the internal market is in the interests of consumers, workers and businesses, in particular start-ups, of more sustainable employment and of the growth and development of smes. i voted for this report because it stresses that a genuine internal market must provide benefits and protection for citizens, consumers and businesses in the form of better quality, greater variety, reasonable prices and safe goods and services.
mr president, our group supports the request. i think it's pretty clear that this is an endangered species and it may be the largest mammal living on the planet today. many species are going extinct one after the other and so i think it is important that our parliament does not lose sight of the issue of biodiversity.
in writing. in the context of climate change, the increased demand for food resulting from population growth and threats to the environment, it is clear that innovation in agricultural technologies is essential to meet these challenges, i am fully aware of this. however, the text voted this afternoon is not acceptable insofar as it promotes a pro-industrial, dehumanized, pro-pesticide, pro-gmo vision. i am particularly shocked, for example, that there is a strong emphasis on substantially increasing food production. as a reminder, we are now producing food for 14 billion people when there are only 7.2 billion of us. the report does not even mention the fight against waste, the problem of obesity or overeating that is affecting more and more people. nor is there any mention of the deep agricultural crisis, the precariousness of the work of the land or the state of exhaustion, which also seriously endanger food production for decades to come. the commission is proposing a simplified procedure for the authorisation of pesticides and of gmos in disguise. this text gives the impression that it was written by the industrialists themselves. i refuse to be a part of this!
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, this week is an important milestone in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion by multinational companies, and i would really like to thank all the fictitious rapporteurs who helped me to present this text here in the plenary. i will not go into the issues - everyone knows them, since the last financial scandals involving tax evasion, tax fraud and money laundering on an industrial scale broke out, whether in the grand duchy of luxembourg, switzerland or panama, and this continues since, as recently as last friday, france decided to sue booking.com for tax evasion amounting to 356 million. i would therefore like to remind you today why this is a crucial step we are taking here in the european parliament. as you know, since these scandals became public knowledge, the european parliament has been one of the driving forces behind a thoroughgoing reform of taxation of multinational companies in europe. it is here that political awareness has taken shape and it is here that pressure has been accumulated to make the council and the member states realise that we no longer want this two-speed europe where, on the one hand, the vast majority of citizens finance the tax and, on the other, the most powerful multinationals in the world evade this tax. this way of analysing the situation is not ideology or political positioning, it is simply a matter of wanting everyone to contribute equally to the financing of youth employment, health care, schooling, universities, housing or security. (the president cut the speaker off) multinationals cannot choose to escape the collective effort simply because they can afford financial or tax advisors whose only job is to figure out how to evade taxes - those same financial/tax advisors whose pay is set according to the amounts that are being diverted from the tax base. this report is therefore the logical continuation of our work, since a comprehensive reflection on taxation has been initiated in parliament, in particular through the special committees taxe 1, taxe 2 and the committee of inquiry into the panama papers, which will soon begin its work. the technical measures in this report are therefore intended to fill the gaps in our legislation or to correct these malfunctions. so let us get to the heart of the matter: what does this report say? firstly, the report provides that companies pay their taxes where they make their profits, and that is why it contains a whole series of precise and binding definitions of the conditions which prove that a multinational is well established in a country, since today, too often, multinationals organise themselves to transfer their profits to tax havens without having paid any taxes in the country where they actually carry out their activities. secondly, the report also provides for the establishment of a strict and common blacklist of the 28 member states of tax havens and countries that distort competition by means of favourable tax conditions, including those located in the union. in short, it is a common definition of what a tax haven is in the 28 countries. the report also proposes to clarify patent legislation, since so far too many multinationals have used patent incentives to artificially reduce their profits, whereas in the beginning it was really a policy to help countries and companies that were really innovative. the report also provides for an end to double non-taxation. in short, it is no longer possible for a multinational to be taxed anywhere because the legislation of the 28 is so complicated that some multinationals set up tax arrangements that hide their profits and the actual amount of taxes paid. as regards the switchover clause and the rules on controlled foreign companies, this report calls for the launch of a debate on a fair tax rate among all member states for corporate tax within the european union, and this measure will allow all member states to tax, at their national rates, the profits of multinationals that are not taxed or taxed at less than 15% in another country. finally, the report provides for effective control of loans between entities of the same multinational, since too often multinationals use this system of loans not to boost investment but only to evade tax. the aim of these measures is not, as i have unfortunately heard, to kill the economy, but to combat effectively tax evasion and avoidance by multinational companies. this is a further step in the process initiated by the european parliament, and i think that is exactly what the european citizens expect from us here in parliament.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make the necessary proposals to the council and parliament. how can we attract more private investment in the european union with the juncker plan efsi? i looked it up and mr bayet, rapporteur for the report we are discussing today and a member of the socialist party, also spoke in the debate. and i can agree with him 100 per cent on what he said then, namely that in the current economic climate, and i quote, "it is important that we give priority to investments that speed up recovery, that increase productivity and that promote reality". i agree with you 100% . we must give priority to these additional investments in the european union. unfortunately, with this report we are doing the opposite, we are sending the opposite signal, also led by the rapporteur, mr bayet. each country decides how much tax it levies on corporations, so that's not really the problem. on the contrary, we can all agree that taxes, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, are too high today and must be lowered. so that's not really the problem. but there is a problem when tax structures are set up that are specifically used to artificially shift profits to countries where taxes are lower with the sole purpose of evading those taxes and the tax. we find that it is mainly multinationals who use it and that small and mediumsized enterprises cannot do so, that they must pay the full price, and that is not true. it's just not right, it's against everyone's feelings. taxes must be paid where the profits are created. that is why we must indeed adapt our european legislation to ensure that taxes are paid where economic activity takes place. but instead of tackling these fraudulent constructions, i see the report focusing on something else, namely raising taxes. i also note that the finance ministers who are discussing this report are going in the right direction and will make the right adjustments to the commission's proposal. in any case, i hope they will ignore most of this resolution and appreciate real entrepreneurs, and certainly the jobs they create.
madam president, commissioner, the last time we discussed taxation, we had a little bit of a falling out, but i have to admit that you have put on the table proposals which i think will make it possible to make important progress in the fight against corporate tax evasion. and what am i to find? that today this parliament, which is preparing to adopt a relatively ambitious position, is addressing an empty seat. i note that the council, which boasts that it alone has jurisdiction in this matter, treats this parliament with disdain, as if we did not exist! we know the dutch presidency - the netherlands are the champions of tax evasion, we know that - but here they are hiding and not even under the seat. makes you wonder what they're hiding. what they have to hide is a flood of amendments from the member states to the commission's proposal. amendments whose sole purpose is to weaken considerably the scope of the texts tabled. one might have hoped that after luxleaks, swissleaks, offshore leaks and the panama papers, the finance ministers would have changed their minds. no, not at all! of course, could those who for decades have been waging this tax war, waged by the member states at the expense of the small taxpayers, be expected to suddenly change their minds? i would like to take two examples: the netherlands, during its presidency, did not make any progress on the notion of an effective minimum tax on companies. of course, they've made near-zero taxation their main selling point. but also the very virtuous wolfgang schäuble - whom you quote so often, commissioner - who is so quick to teach lessons to the whole of europe, is opposed to companies being obliged to publish their results by country - you know, transparency could stimulate public passions... finally, the same wolgang schäuble does not shy away from stimulating public passions when it comes to greece, but obviously, if it is german companies and their small interests that once financed mr schäuble's cdu, then it is better to be opaque. i warn the council, because if this continues, their empty seat will soon be filled by the worst kind of populists. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the question is "blue cardboard". mr. lamberts has just made a fantastic film, but he expresses a point that i share. he just got here ten minutes ago; i've been here since the debate started. he criticized the council, and he's right. mrs joly has worked well with mr bayet. i understand that you are arguing against this report in the green group; i can hear all the members welcoming it, saying that it is a step forward, because, of course, putting an end to tax evasion is something fundamental. today you criticised the council, and you did well. are you prepared to support the report by mr bayet?
answer is "blue cardboard". you are quite right, we opposed the report in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, mainly because of a backtracking on an important provision at the last minute. but it is true that in the meantime we have worked well with hugues bayet, the green group and other parties and that is why we have decided to support the report when it is voted on in plenary. we have worked well together, but i still regret that the 20% limit - i will not go into the technique - for the deduction of interest remains in the text. it's a shame, though.
blue-card question. – mr helmer, you are right. tax competition is a good thing. the question is for whom? for the shareholders of large companies. but it is probably not such a good thing for the small taxpayers – individuals and smes – who then end up bearing the brunt of financing public services. that means that – unless of course you want to get rid of education, the nhs and all the rest of it – someone has to pay for it, and the name of the game today is tax injustice. basically, what you are defending with your positions is even more tax injustice so that the little man pays and the big man gets away with it in the tax havens that you defend so well.
we have asked a lot of our citizens over the past few years. their efforts during the crisis have helped us to safeguard the foundations of our economy. we have called on them again in the reforms that have followed. it is therefore necessary that these reforms be accompanied by a justice agenda. otherwise, you're undermining your own support. if ordinary citizens feel that they are the only ones paying the bill and others are skipping the dance, then you create a breeding ground for extremism and populist recuperation. that is why we must show that europe is much more than painful austerity and neoliberal free-market thinking. europe is and must be a leading player in the fight for fairer taxation, through the panama commission of inquiry, which we will be voting on later this week, but also in this dossier. otherwise, citizens will turn their backs and give thanks for a european project that seems to serve only the interests of big business and wealthy mobile citizens. this bill can make europe take a big step towards a fairer tax system. moreover, by translating the commitments made by member states at oecd level into binding european legislation, we avoid a patchwork of 28 different types of legislation to combat tax avoidance. this gives businesses more tax security and we also create a level playing field for all businesses, small and large. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not the commission's intention to take any action to prevent fraud. smes simply do not have the resources to do so. it is high time we fulfilled our promises to the citizens and showed that european cooperation is the best guarantee for strong and dynamic welfare states, backed up by fairer tax systems.
blue-card question. – mr hayes, you said that tax sovereignty remains with the member states. on paper you are right, but when a company is basically playing one member state against another and uses, for instance, your country or mine basically to lower its tax rates, i would argue that the real tax sovereignty does not lie with the member state but with the major multinational corporations. that is where it lies, so let us take it back.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank you all for your speeches, and i would like to thank in particular my fictitious colleagues, because in this very political and relatively technical subject i wanted to emphasise the quality of their listening and the respect they showed during all the discussions. i think you have understood, commissioner, that although the methodology or methods differ somewhat from one political group to another, parliament is unanimous in its desire to put an end to this system which allows multinationals to avoid paying taxes where they carry out their activities, to pay almost no taxes, because - contrary to what i heard earlier - the average tax in europe, which is levied on income or profits of companies, is 2.4%. in the united states, it is 19 percent. and these are not political figures. if anyone doesn't believe me here, they can check out the parliament website. these figures are based on studies carried out by the oecd and the commission. it's the reality. as a result, we do not tax more in europe than elsewhere, i would even say the opposite. of course, this notice sets out in one text a whole series of principles that we believe are essential to bringing an end to this system. as my colleagues niedermayer and calvet-chambon have said, we are not going to kill the economy, because we are obviously distinguishing between the real economy and the cheaters - the cheaters who hide their profits, the cheaters who use letter boxes in panama, for example. nor will we over-regulate, we are simply defining a whole series of loopholes in the legislation, these loopholes which are used by multinationals to avoid paying taxes. we have also spoken - as you said, commissioner - of tax regimes favourable to patents and tax havens, and my colleagues joly, de masi and valli have told you this; but, commissioner, this is no longer an administrative or institutional problem. what we want are solutions. we cannot continue with a patent system which at present allows a whole series of multinational companies to charge exorbitant amounts for years on simple logos simply to avoid paying taxes. so, "through the door or through the window", the commission will have to help us to change things. we are counting on you, commissioner, to influence the council's decisions, because if the council does not change its attitude and does not listen to us, it will be solely responsible for the future scandals that will unfortunately still happen in europe and elsewhere in the world.
for the greens/efa group mr president, this summer marks nine years since the financial crisis began. even today, the nominal volume of financial markets is ten times the size of the real economy on a daily basis. ten times, you know. in other words, for one dollar of trade, we speculate for ten dollars. needless to say, these activities are unnecessary and, in fact, harmful to the real economy. in particular, as anneliese dodds has mentioned, there is daily speculation on raw materials and especially on food raw materials. it is incredible that a text that was adopted in february 2014 with a view to being applied at the beginning of 2017, that is to say three years later, is still not ready to be implemented in six months and that the commission asks, eighteen months after the adoption of the text: "can't we postpone it for another year?" this shows the state of preparation and above all the hyper-complexity of the text and, let us not be mistaken, complexity is often the vehicle of laxity. simple legislation is often much stricter than highly complex legislation. because of the complexity of this matter, we are being asked to extend the deadline by one year. and if that were all, we could say, "well, they've been pretty unprofessional, let's give them another year", knowing that that extra year would be another year of speculation, especially in food products. but it's not just about that. as if by chance, this text has been the occasion to introduce a number of new exemptions which will further reduce the transparency of financial markets. in other words, by introducing these exceptions, we confirm the suspicion that these delays are being used to weaken a text which, already, did not have the necessary level of ambition. we shall therefore vote against this delay. if it had been only the delay, we would have voted reluctantly in favour, but because of the additional exemptions which this text has been the vehicle for, we will refuse to vote for it.
in writing. ‒ the world health organization framework convention on tobacco control, or fctc, is the first global health agreement. it was created to counter the widespread use of tobacco worldwide. it focuses in particular on the illicit trade in tobacco products, which is not only a criminal offence but also a serious health risk, with one person dying every six seconds from a smoking-related disease. the protocol to prevent illicit trade in tobacco products (fctc protocol) covers the following important issues: the establishment of a tracking and tracing system, the regulation of internet sales and record keeping requirements. although there is already a comprehensive eu strategy to combat cigarette smuggling, it is important to note that a significant proportion of illicit tobacco products in the eu originate from third countries. it is therefore important to give effect to the protocol signed by the eu in december 2013. this will not happen, however, until it has been ratified by 40 contracting parties, which has not yet happened. i therefore support parliament's call for ratification by the eu and its member states to allow for a swift entry into force.
in writing. ‒ the who framework convention on tobacco control is the first global health treaty on tobacco control. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products is the main global initiative in this field. it contains a set of measures, rules and strategies to combat this illicit trade. to address this, the protocol targets the tobacco supply chain through a series of measures by governments. i approved the report.
in writing. ‒ 6 million deaths worldwide, or one person every 6 seconds, 700 000 in the european union, these are the staggering figures for the damage caused by tobacco. so yes, we must support all initiatives to stop this health scourge! ratifying the who protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products is a requirement. to date, only 5 out of 28 member states have done so, which is not enough. but it is imperative to go further and stop the hypocrisy, illicit tobacco remains a serial killer, it brings less to the state coffers, that's all! the eu must make three commitments: to refuse any interference between public decision-makers and the tobacco industry, as our parliament recalled in its resolution of 9 march 2016 by, for example, asking the european commission not to renew the anti-trafficking agreement with philip morris international (pmi). it is also essential to relaunch large-scale campaigns to raise awareness of the dangers of tobacco! finally, the eu must shift its negative view of e-cigarettes and listen to the 7 million regular vapers who, with their experience, claim the effectiveness of this tool in reducing their tobacco consumption.
in writing. ‒ the who framework convention on tobacco control was adopted in november 2012 by the conference of the parties. this framework convention calls for the application of effective measures to eliminate the illicit manufacture and trade of tobacco products. the european union and its member states lose an estimated 10 billion euros a year to the illicit manufacture and trade of tobacco products. but that is not all. the illicit trade in tobacco is also a major public health problem. it is therefore important to combat such practices effectively. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution of the european parliament which supports the ratification of this framework convention. i support the idea of a global system of traceability and tracing for all tobacco products. i also support the provisions in this resolution to implement effective controls on tobacco and tobacco products in the free zones. given the major challenge this fight represents, particularly in terms of public health, i strongly encourage the member states to ratify this protocol as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted for the text. illicit trade in tobacco products, including smuggling of cigarettes, is a criminal activity that poses a serious risk to public health as it undermines the success of tobacco control policies by facilitating access to tobacco products, often at lower cost. in addition, it causes the union to lose huge revenue in terms of avoided taxes and customs duties. it is estimated that the union and the member states suffer revenue losses of more than eur 10 billion each year. the legal sale of tobacco generates more than €90 billion in tax revenue for the member states each year. so about one in ten cigarettes is sold illegally. whereas 15 years ago the illicit tobacco market within the union was dominated by the smuggling of tobacco products by the main manufacturers, the smuggling of tobacco products by the main manufacturers is decreasing in importance as the market is increasingly occupied by so-called 'cheap whites' (other brands bought in third countries and introduced into the union without paying taxes and customs duties; these are products for which there is generally no legal distribution network within the union.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation framework convention on tobacco control (fctc) is the first global health convention. the agreement should provide a response to the global tobacco epidemic by addressing a number of underlying causes, including illicit trade in tobacco products. i fully agree with this because the protocol will contribute to public health and to the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ in order to maintain its important position in the automotive sector, the union must participate in regulatory cooperation at global level, which must contribute to the establishment of a transparent and competitive economic environment, while ensuring the highest levels of health and safety protection. common technical requirements such as the unece framework fall within this framework. i approved that.
in writing. i welcome the lange report adopted by the inta commission on the draft council decision on the third revision of the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning the adoption of uniform provisions for wheeled vehicles. the automotive industry plays a central role in the euro area economy, employing over 12 million people, representing over 4% of gdp. the eu remains the world's largest manufacturer of motor vehicles, and the sector is the largest private investor in research and development. to maintain this crucial position, it is important to consolidate the competitiveness of our industry in such a way as to maintain our global technological ascendancy. i think that to do this we should invest in the harmonization of technology at a global level and establish common technical standards as proposed by the unece. international regulatory cooperation would allow for the establishment of a transparent and competitive economic framework while maintaining a high level of protection of health and safety standards. common technology requirements will also reduce costs for administrative certification, production and development.
in writing. ‒ the automotive industry and its related auxiliary sectors are an important economic sector for the european union. unfortunately, this sector was hit hard during the crisis, and many workers suffered the consequences of the many restructurings. this is particularly the case in my country, belgium. in order to preserve the position of the european automotive sector and to restore future prospects to its workers, the union must strengthen the competitiveness of its automotive industry. in this respect, the establishment of a transparent and competitive economic environment can be an asset. but be careful, there is no question of jeopardizing the health and safety protection of workers. the union should support global technological harmonisation and common technical requirements such as the unece framework allow for reduced development, production and certification costs and avoid redundancy of administrative procedures. in order to enable the european union to present its position at the unece meeting on this subject, the european parliament decided to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i share the view that the union should support global technological harmonisation. common technical requirements such as the unece framework reduce development, production and certification costs and avoid redundancy in administrative procedures. it is essential that the european union is able to present its position at the unece meeting in june 2016. the council has therefore put forward a request in its letter for a vote in plenary in may. the rapporteur's desire to respect the principle of multilingualism and to give this approval as much publicity as possible is therefore suggested.
in writing. ‒ the automotive industry and its related supply industries are a key economic sector for the european union. the automotive sector employs 12 million people and accounts for 4% of eu gdp. the sector is important for upstream (e.g. steel, chemicals) and downstream (e.g. ict, mobility services) industries. the eu is one of the world's largest producers of motor vehicles, and the sector is the largest private investor in research and development. i agreed to this recommendation because international agreements at un level can only contribute to equal standards and transparency.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which seeks to incorporate an additional protocol into the trade agreement with colombia and peru to take account of croatia's accession to the union.
in writing. the trade agreement between the union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in june 2012. the aim of the agreement is to liberalize trade in agricultural, industrial and services products. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. as the participation of croatia in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the union, in july 2013 it was necessary for parliament to approve the conclusion of the additional protocol on the participation of croatia in the trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted this afternoon in favour of croatia's accession to the trade agreement between the european union, colombia and peru. the provisions of the agreement shall apply from 1 march 2013 with peru and from 1 august 2013 with colombia. this agreement liberalises trade in agricultural, industrial and services products between the union and these two south american countries. the agreement opens up new trade opportunities for the union's major exporting industries, which benefit from the abolition of customs duties. for example, the savings in duties amount to more than €33 million for the automotive and automotive parts sector and more than €60 million for textiles. these agreements also help to ensure respect for human and social rights and promote environmental protection and regional integration in latin america. croatia's participation in this trade agreement through the conclusion of an additional protocol is a natural consequence of its accession to the european union on 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ it is necessary to adopt an additional protocol to the agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. this is a natural consequence of croatia's accession to the european union, which is why i voted in favour of this act. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement.
in writing. ‒ in the european parliament's view, croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the european union. it was only a matter of time before the commission and the council took the necessary legal steps to enable this participation. in view of these factors, your rapporteur recommends that parliament give its consent to the conclusion of the additional protocol on the participation of croatia in the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part. the approval of the council decision by the european parliament is essential for the ratification procedure of the additional protocol to be completed.
in writing. ‒ the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012. the european parliament gave its consent on 11 december 2012. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products and trade in services. the agreement also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, competition, intellectual property rights and public procurement. i naturally agreed that croatia, by its accession to the eu, was an integral part of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ between december 2015 and february 2016, belgium, together with 16 other member states, addressed a request to the commission requesting closer cooperation between them on the legal status of property in a marriage or registered partnership. the questions of jurisdiction, application, recognition and enforcement are thus to be answered within a clear legal framework. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. especially there, international couples are not uncommon. the commission has not yet decided on the legal basis for the procedure, but it is hoped that the council will be able to reach a decision on the matter in due course. this problem is not only encountered in cases of separation or death of the partner, but also in everyday property matters. the report now aims to simplify the lives of those concerned by means of a clear legal framework, which i very much welcome.
in writing. ‒ this is a matter of using enhanced cooperation on international matrimonial property regimes, as 23 member states are in favour of this.
in writing. ‒ love knows no borders, and this is what parliament has reminded us of by voting this text by a large majority this afternoon. it will enable married couples living legally together in another eu country to have their relationship recognised and the administrative maze simplified. some member states have slowed down this process, which started in 2011. belgium and 17 other countries today decided to move forward and complete their mutual recognition of marriages and legal cohabitation through enhanced cooperation. in these member states, the property regimes will be harmonised and couples will be able to choose the law which will govern their property (that of their country of choice or that of which they are nationals). this cooperation also increases legal certainty and predictability, especially in the event of the death of one of the spouses or partners. each year, 300,000 new international marriages are celebrated in europe, and 500,000 are dissolved by divorce or death. these figures rise to 41 000 and 10 000 respectively for civil partnerships, now permitted in 20 eu countries.
in writing. ‒ 18 member states requested enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of international matrimonial property regimes, concerning both matrimonial property regimes and the property effects of registered partnerships. the member states concerned are belgium, bulgaria, the czech republic, germany, greece, spain, france, croatia, italy, cyprus, luxembourg, malta, the netherlands, austria, portugal, slovenia, finland and sweden. while i voted in favour of this enhanced cooperation, i nevertheless regret the blocking of negotiations between all member states on the commission's initial proposals in 2011. i hope that this enhanced cooperation will be the first step towards more europe in this area.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur. the acts to be adopted shall not affect the rights of non-participating member states and shall not affect the internal market. such enhanced cooperation in the field of international matrimonial property law is clearly in line with the objectives of the union and in the interest of its citizens. parliament therefore approved the enhanced cooperation in this area. this decision is purely procedural.
in writing. ‒ in the absence of agreement with the 28 member states on a commission proposal on clearer rules on the international interconnection power system, closer cooperation proved to be the best solution, with 23 member states agreeing in principle. i voted in favour of this recommendation for closer cooperation because i believe that we must indeed find solutions to the power system of international couples.
in writing. ‒ the who framework convention on tobacco control is the first global health treaty on tobacco control. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products is the main global initiative in this field. it contains a set of measures, rules and strategies to combat this illicit trade. to address this, the protocol targets the tobacco supply chain through a series of measures by governments. i approved the report.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the adoption of the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products (the fctc protocol), which is the only global and multilateral initiative in the field of tobacco smuggling. it is important to note that most of the illicit tobacco products circulating in our european territory come from third countries. to tackle this cross-border criminal activity, it is imperative to establish an efficient global mechanism. in addition to the fact that this illicit trade leads to immeasurable customs costs - more than €10 billion a year - this activity is a very high health risk. the protocol proposed by the cclat provides a set of effective strategies against illicit trade in tobacco by aiming to secure the tobacco supply chain and by establishing a global traceability system. a system of controls on licensing, online sales, franchising and international transit will be put in place. this protocol will facilitate administrative cooperation in customs matters and will define more precisely the responsibilities and offences required after the seizure or disposal of illicit goods.
in writing. ‒ the who framework convention on tobacco control was adopted in november 2012 by the conference of the parties. this framework convention calls for the application of effective measures to eliminate the illicit manufacture and trade of tobacco products. the european union and its member states lose an estimated 10 billion euros a year to the illicit manufacture and trade of tobacco products. the illicit trade in tobacco is also a major public health problem. it is therefore important to combat such practices effectively. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution of the european parliament which supports the ratification of this framework convention. in my view, it is imperative to strengthen cooperation between member states through an automatic exchange of information system. i also support the introduction of enforcement measures, including fines and other appropriate civil and criminal sanctions. given the major challenge this fight represents, particularly in terms of public health, i strongly encourage the member states to ratify this protocol as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the decision to use enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of international matrimonial property regimes, concerning both matrimonial property regimes and the property effects of registered partnerships, comes after the negotiations between all member states on the original proposals made by the commission in 2011 have stalled. i am deeply sorry, however, that the rapporteur has made a distinction and segregated same-sex couples.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. illicit trade in tobacco products is defined in the protocol as any act or conduct prohibited by law in connection with the manufacture, dispatch, receipt, possession, distribution, sale or purchase of tobacco products. i voted in favour of this recommendation because the protocol encourages and strengthens international cooperation and contributes to the secure exchange of information, technical cooperation in law enforcement, and mutual legal and administrative assistance. this is a fearsome weapon against crime and for our health.
in writing. ‒ the markets in financial instruments directive adopted in 2014 states that the european securities and markets authority, or esma, is to work with the national competent authorities of each member state to develop a common data system. the directive requires this to be done by 3 january 2017. however, to ensure efficient and harmonised data collection, a completely new infrastructure has to be created. esma and the national authorities cannot currently guarantee that these infrastructures will be in place and ready for use by the requested date. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the amendment to the directive postpones these deadlines by a further year. i welcome this extension of time, as it is necessary to create an effective infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the revision of the markets in financial instruments directive. mifid 2 is a revision of mifid 1 that addresses the shadow areas of the markets. mifid regulates investment services in the field of financial instruments provided by banks, as well as the operation of traditional stock exchanges and other trading platforms. the main elements are: improvement of the structure of the markets; the transparency of trading activities on stock markets will be enhanced; to regulate high frequency trading; limit the risks of destabilising speculation in commodity markets; to strengthen investor protection. the european parliament debates focused on the issue of the remuneration of financial management consultants and ways of preventing the risk of conflicts of interest. parliament has adopted the principle of remuneration by fees for independent advisers, leaving no choice to the member states. the standards will not come into force until 2018 instead of 2017 as originally planned!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the proposal for a regulation amending, as regards certain dates, directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments. as regards exemptions, the report states that the directive should not apply to persons who trade financial instruments other than commodity derivatives or emission allowances, or derivatives thereof, on their own account and who do not provide any other investment services or perform any other investment activity in relation to financial instruments other than commodity derivatives or emission allowances or derivatives thereof, unless such persons are either members or participants of a regulated market or an mtf, or have direct electronic access to a trading venue, and in both cases apply a high-frequency algorithmic trading technique on such a trading venue. it seemed important to emphasise this.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending, as regards certain dates, directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments.
in writing. ‒ the new framework strengthens investor protection by introducing robust organisational and operational requirements by july 2016. however, stakeholders such as trading venues, esma and national competent authorities cannot guarantee that the necessary data collection infrastructures will be up and running by that time. without data, trading venues and investment firms will not be able to report executed transactions to the competent authorities. in order to ensure legal certainty and to avoid potential market distortions, i voted for urgent measures to postpone the date of application of the full framework.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european regulation on market abuse. the regulation provides for the extension of the market abuse regime to non-regulated markets and new types of financial instruments. the extension of the scope of this scheme means that issuers listed on the open market will be subject to preventive measures to combat market abuse (publication of inside information, establishment of insider lists, obligation to notify executive transactions, etc.).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the proposal for a regulation amending, as regards certain dates, regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on improving securities regulation in the union and central securities depositories. investment firms often execute, for their own account or that of their clients, transactions in derivatives or other financial instruments or assets that include a set of related or subordinated transactions. such packages of transactions allow investment firms and their clients to better manage risk, with the price of each element of the package reflecting the overall risk profile of the whole rather than the current market price for each element. i thought it was important to emphasize that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments to this proposal. investment firms often execute, for their own account or that of their clients, transactions in derivatives or other financial instruments or assets that include a set of related or subordinated transactions. such packages of transactions allow investment firms and their clients to better manage risk, with the price of each element of the package reflecting the overall risk profile of the whole rather than the current market price for each element. packages of transactions may take different forms, such as an exchange of spot instruments (efp), trading strategies executed on trading venues, or tailor-made packages of transactions, and their different characteristics should be taken into account for the calibration of the applicable transparency regime. it is therefore appropriate to specify, for the purposes of regulation (eu) no 600/2014, the specific circumstances in which pre-negotiation transparency would not apply to bundles of transactions or to any of their elements on an individual basis.
in writing. ‒ this legislative resolution is closely linked to the ferber report on which we voted earlier today. i voted in favour of this too, in the interests of legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ following the favourable recommendation of our committee on budgets, i have approved this designation.
in writing. i congratulate mr rimantas sadzius on his appointment as a member of the court of auditors of the european union. his experience as finance minister in lithuania since december 2012 and the work he carried out in that capacity to bring his country into the euro area as the 19th member state, testify to his willingness to put all his experience at the service of the union.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, parliament voted in favour of the appointment of mr rimantas šadžius to replace mrs rasa budbergytė as lithuania's representative member of the court of auditors of the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. through his work in this position, mr šadžius made possible the entry of his country into the euro area. parliament recognises this experience and mr šadžius' ability to defend the interests of european taxpayers and to improve the management of the union budget.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted in favour of the appointment of rimantas šadžius as lithuanian member of the court of auditors. this appointment was made following the evaluation by the committee on budgetary control of the qualifications of the candidate proposed by the council and his hearing at its meeting of 23 may 2016.
in writing. ‒ parliament gave a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint rimantas šadžius as a member of the court of auditors. the president shall forward this decision to the council and, for information, to the court of auditors, as well as to the other institutions of the european union and to the audit institutions of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of appointing rimantas sadzius as a member of the court of auditors because the committee on budgetary control gave a favourable opinion after examining his credentials.
in writing. ‒ under the guise of sustainable development, additional taxes are suggested, a common asylum and migration policy is proposed, and a proactive role for the eu and an infringement of the sovereignty of the member states and the third countries concerned are organised.
in writing. ‒ one and a half billion people live in poverty and lack access to healthcare, education and a decent income. this demonstrates the importance of policy coherence for development (pdc). in this report, which i approved, parliament considers that the dpc should contribute to the establishment of the rule of law and impartial institutions and to the challenge of good governance in developing countries. in this respect, it regrets the lack of progress in implementing the principles of the cpd and calls for a debate on this issue in the context of sustainable development by 2030. the report also calls on the commission to systematically consult human rights organisations at an early stage of the development decision-making process and calls for more institutional coordination between the eu institutions and the member states.
in writing. ‒ development policy is one of the main areas of foreign policy of the european union and its member states. the eu's contribution to international development is measured not only by the size of its official development assistance (oda) budget, but also by the efficiency with which it is spent. the nva delegation is therefore pleased that the report emphasises the added value of policy coherence. it is, however, of the opinion that certain paragraphs in the report lack focus. the proposed financial transaction taxes would increase the cost of financing for belgian companies, which would harm their competitiveness. the commission has also received comments from the netherlands authorities, which have not provided any evidence to support its view that the measure is compatible with the internal market. taxation policy is a matter for national competence. finally, it considers that stricter recommendations to encourage corporate ownership of corporate social responsibility are more realistic than developing internationally binding frameworks. the nva delegation therefore abstained from voting on this report.
in writing. the 2015 report is an important element of the union's contribution to greater policy coherence for sustainable development. while the union regularly reaffirms its political commitment to the dpc, it has yet to find the means to put this commitment into practice. the report not only takes stock of the progress made by the commission, but also identifies areas where the existing policy coherence mechanisms for development in the union can be improved. there is a need to stimulate the debate on the future of policy coherence at union level, in particular in the context of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development adopted by the united nations last september.
in writing. ‒ today, one and a half billion people still live in poverty and lack access to health care, education and decent income. in order to provide the most effective assistance to these people, it is important to ensure policy coherence for development (pdc), particularly in the design and implementation of the new sustainable development programme. in this report, the european parliament calls on the commission to systematically consult human rights organisations at an early stage of the decision-making process. this is an important element in view of the experience of these actors on the ground. the report also provided the european parliament with an opportunity to identify areas it considers to be priorities, namely immigration, trade and finance, food security, climate change and security. i have decided to vote in favour of this report, in line with many of the points.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the text. the previous reports of the european parliament have made a major contribution to advancing the concept of the dpc by institutionalising a permanent rapporteur on the subject in the committee on development, by affirming that the dpc falls within the political competence of the parliament (as a democratically elected institution and as a co-legislator) and by putting forward concrete proposals to move forward with the application of the concept at union level. this report not only takes stock of the progress made by the european commission and identifies areas where the mechanisms of the cpd in place in the union can be improved, but also seeks to stimulate debate on the future of the concept at the union level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because there is often a lack of coherence when it comes to eu development policy. the emphasis in this report on the eu's external policy is absolutely necessary. as the refugee crisis and destabilisation in the eu's neighbourhood put pressure on the eu's foundations, the emphasis should be placed on external action, among other things. stabilising the eu's neighbours must be a top priority for the eu.
in writing. – i support this pcd (policy coherence for development) report because i believe that policy coherence is necessary to achieve sustainable development. in this regard, the eu can set an example for the rest of the world. the european parliament plays a great role in this. in that respect, we need to correct existing inconsistencies. this is important if we want to implement the 2030 agenda for sustainable development correctly. moreover, in order to succeed, our international partners also need to be convinced. the overall goal here, is to establish universal development goals and to overcome the outdated idea of donor-recipient. pcd promotes synergies and cooperation across different policy areas. therefore, i welcome the rapporteur’s efforts on promoting the pcd debate and the need for involving many different stakeholders, such as the institutions, civil society and think tanks. in addition, he recognises the need for a stronger focus on eu external relations, which will be needed to solve the various crises at the eu’s borders. pcd will be an important contribution to this.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa, or nafsn, was launched in 2012 with the aim of complementing private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in african countries. the eu and its member states have thus become the world's largest donor of development aid. investments under nafsn have already benefited more than 8.2 million smallholders and created more than 21 000 jobs, more than half of them for women. however, it should be taken into account that at least 14% of total greenhouse gas emissions per year are attributable to agriculture. the main cause of this is the use of nitrogen fertilizers. i therefore support parliament's call for nafsn to limit the use of artificial fertilisers and pesticides to the greatest extent possible, given their environmental and health consequences. finally, however, the human rights of workers in africa must be respected alongside the environment and health. investors based in the eu must respect the rights of small farmers and the community as a whole on the ground and must not exploit their economic advantages. social responsibility is required here.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nasan) aims to improve food security and nutrition by helping 50 million people in sub-saharan africa to lift themselves out of poverty by 2020. the participating countries have negotiated cooperation frameworks where they commit to fostering private investment in the agricultural sector in africa. i supported this resolution which calls for a review of investment strategies in agriculture taking into account the resources of the local economy, in particular smallholders and family farms. the text denounces the fact that small farmers, agricultural workers, fishermen and indigenous peoples are too little taken into account in the decision. it therefore calls for the review of all projects which directly promote land grabbing.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted in favour of the report, which is critical of the new alliance for food security and nutrition (nafsn). it goes without saying that africa needs investment in agriculture. food security is and remains a major problem that must be addressed. but the alliance is not taking the right approach. the key to n-va is that good living conditions for african farmers can contribute to a more favourable local economy. there are also fewer push factors for migration to the eu. the alliance denies that small farmers have the capacity to compete with multinationals. the report rightly calls for family businesses and local economies to be given a more central place in this cooperation. the nasfn also poses environmental risks (erosion problems, loss of biodiversity, decline in the diversity of seed supply) through its encouragement of large-scale monocultures, which in turn undermine food security.
in writing. the new alliance for food security aims to mobilise private investment in agriculture to improve food security and nutrition in sub-saharan africa. as a result, each participating african country has adopted a cooperation framework setting out commitments for legislative reforms, funding intentions from g7 donors and business pledges to invest a total of usd 8 billion. in this context, the european union is responsible for coordination in côte d'ivoire and malawi. while the new covenant's purpose is noble, it has many shortcomings, which this report is worthy of pointing out. the new alliance must not replicate the asian green revolution model in africa, marginalizing african smallholder farmers and undermining unsustainable agriculture. in my view, the union must make the new alliance a support mechanism for family farming and local economies, with the ultimate aim of fighting poverty and food and nutritional insecurity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which notes that multinationals operating under the new alliance for food security and nutrition (nasan) are promoting large-scale contract farming, at the risk of marginalising small local producers, and which considers it essential to strengthen farmers' organisations, for example, so as to give them more weight in the negotiations. i also supported an amendment which deplores the fact that in the african context some companies are calling for the harmonization of seed laws which is bound to hinder the establishment and development of farmers' seed systems because they would not meet the criteria of distinction, homogeneity and stability (dhs).
in writing. ‒ we do not want ggo's in europe, but neither in africa. yet that is exactly what is happening through the so-called new alliance for food security and nutrition. this public-private partnership was launched in 2012 under the auspices of the g8. the aim is to improve food security and food quality in sub-saharan africa through private investment in agriculture. ngos have repeatedly rejected this approach because it encourages land grabbing, restricts the freedom of exchange of seed (when farmers should be able to grow their own seeds independently) and pushes ggo down the throats of african farmers, whether they like it or not. just so we 're clear , introducing new gmos into the environment poses serious problems for farmers who want to grow gm-free, as these organisms spread freely and uncontrolled in nature. the report by mr heubuch, a green member, lists all these points and is against any promotion of gmos in africa at the expense of the taxpayer. monsanto finds the report neo-colonial, which is ironic, since the industry itself is using this new alliance to bend african laws on land ownership, seeds and gmos to their advantage. i therefore voted in favour of the report with conviction.
in writing. ‒ each participating african country has adopted a cooperation framework which sets out the commitments of each of the parties concerned. these commitments cover legislative reforms in individual african countries, the funding intentions of g7 donors and the pledges of the 180 participating companies to invest a total of usd 8 billion. two companies are leading the way in terms of their share of agricultural investment: the swiss seed producer syngenta and the norwegian fertilizer manufacturer yara international. i recognize the need for african countries to invest in agriculture. while the objective of nasan is commendable, it has many shortcomings. the text voted today is a good instrument for cooperation and improvement of the agricultural situation in the framework of enhanced cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the new alliance for food security and nutrition, despite its shortcomings, is of the utmost importance in africa. the report clearly emphasises that official development assistance (oda) should be used to combat poverty, and not to serve the interests of eu trade policy. the eu should not use oda to support transnational companies that operate as monopolies or cartels, undermining the local private sector and crowding out family farms and small farms.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this parliamentary resolution. in 2012 we launched the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn). this alliance is aiming to offer significant support to a variety of african countries. in order to do this we need to learn from mistakes from the past. this parliamentary resolution identifies many of these mistakes. with regard to governance and ownership, i agree that efforts need to be made to help these nations to avoid corruption. in addition, it needs to be monitored whether the country cooperation frameworks (ccf) are actually implemented. for this to happen, they need to be made public and be fully transparent. in order for the farmers to participate in farming, we also need to ensure that they maintain access to land and that malicious practises such as land-grabbing are prevented. but what i most strongly welcome is the rapporteur’s call on including women in all of our actions, to promote gender equality.
in writing. ‒ the international accounting standards board (iasb) is a neutral and independent body that develops high-quality accounting standards and a common terminology for financial reporting worldwide. since 2005, listed companies in the eu have been required to prepare their annual accounts in accordance with these accounting standards. these standards are particularly important for the establishment of a single capital market in the eu. however, the complexity of financial reporting is constantly increasing, making it difficult for smaller companies in particular to enter the stock market. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to examine with the iasb whether accounting standards can be developed specifically for smaller companies. i also support the parliament's proposal to formulate a common european position on the development of standards, because it would be a disadvantage if national and european bodies were to take different lines in the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ since 2005, publicly listed companies in the eu have been required to prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance with international accounting standards. the incorporation of international accounting standards into european union law is governed by an adoption mechanism described in the ias regulation. two key points are made in this report:• the need to develop consistent financial reporting standards. harmonisation and consistency should be ensured in the existing body of international accounting standards, but also with regard to other union financial services regulations; • call for a further strengthening of european influence in the early stages of the development of accounting standards.
in writing. ‒ international financial reporting standards (ifrs) and international auditing standards (isa) make a major contribution to the smooth functioning of the internal market and capital markets by facilitating investor decision-making. these standards ensure, in particular, a better exchange of information between investors and companies and a better protection of investments. the consistency of these standards is therefore fundamental. in this report, parliament calls on the commission to follow a series of recommendations and calls on the standardisation body to ensure that these standards are in line with those set at world level. the clarity of these standards will enable us to increase the confidence of investors in our market, which is a significant source of growth.
in writing. ‒ the report was an opportunity to assess international accounting standards, which are one of the essential elements for the proper functioning of the internal market and capital markets. ifrs are intended to reduce the information gap between investors and firms, to protect investments, to promote transparency by improving the comparability and quality of financial information internationally, and to enable investors and other market participants to make informed economic decisions. however, ten years after they were implemented, it is time for a review - and corrections. unfortunately, i note that the commission has not yet proposed the necessary legislative changes to address the shortcomings identified in its own assessment. i support the european parliament's calls for the maystadt recommendation to be followed up on the extension of the public interest test. these standards must not jeopardise financial stability or impede the economic development of the european union. i also support the request to the commission to make a proposal to incorporate into the ias regulation the definition of the 'general interest' criterion which also appears in the maystadt report.
in writing. ‒ international accounting standards are an important component of the financial services regulation and the eu supervisory framework. they are linked to many other aspects of european financial services regulation, particularly in the area of prudential regulation. the rapporteur therefore stresses the importance of accounting standards for the establishment of a single capital market in the european union, in particular in the context of the proposed capital markets union (cmu). he said that the application of international financial reporting standards in the eu had helped to strengthen the single market and the competitiveness of the european economy by enabling businesses to attract capital and investment on global capital markets. the application of ifrs standards in the european union over the past ten years has therefore had overall positive effects. however, the financial crisis has shown that financial reporting standards need to be revised and improved. the use of the term 'fair value' and its implications for financial stability, in particular, has sparked an ongoing debate. so this text is a good signal
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because international financial reporting standards (ifrs) and international auditing standards (isa) are indispensable for the proper functioning of the internal market and capital markets. the report aims to avoid endangering financial stability and hampering the economic development of the union. it is designed to serve the general interest, and not just the interests of investors, lenders and creditors.
in writing. ‒ this report is more about the eu's military build-up than peace support on the african continent. it goes against the idea of a civil union.
in writing. ‒ un peacekeeping missions aim to contribute to the creation of stable and secure environments with greater prosperity in the long term. the key players are not only the united nations, but also the african union and the eu. together they agree on objectives for security and development in africa. although the eu has spent a total of €1.5 billion over the past 20 years to contribute to the process of mine clearance and mine victims, eu countries together have only 5 000 out of a total of 92 000 soldiers. this is only 5% of un peacekeeping missions. i agree with the decision of parliament that the individual member states should participate with a significantly greater number of military and police forces. the commission's contribution would also be enhanced by the development of european military cooperation. the cooperation of eu countries is important, and it is not desirable for individual countries to act alone.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which recalls that peace operations (pos) are a form of response to crisis situations, generally in support of internationally recognised organisations with a un mandate, and are intended to prevent armed conflict, restore, maintain or establish peace, or respond to emergency situations. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. they also stress the need for coordination with other organisations to focus on areas where the union can bring the greatest added value.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted in favour of the report. the security situation has deteriorated dramatically over the last decade due to the emergence of new terrorist and rebel groups. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of civil society organisations. the commission wishes to emphasize two points. firstly, there must always be an eye for efficiency and the added value that the member states can provide. secondly, in addition to a police and military contribution, attention must also be paid to civil protection. the belgian army, for example, cannot always take part in military operations because of its limited size. this does not mean, however, that belgium cannot make a valuable civilian contribution.
in writing. africa is the scene of multiple conflicts. the latter are largely responsible for its economic backwardness and poverty. while this resolution insists that africa should be more involved in peace support operations on its territory, the au is equally keen to see this. unlike the oau, which pursued a policy of non-interference, the oau applies the principle of non-indifference to the atrocities and massacres committed on the continent. she says it clearly, she is "looking for african solutions to african problems". it went even further, establishing an african mechanism to prevent unilateral foreign intervention in african affairs. to do this in the field, she needs to be helped to develop her skills. this is the only way for her to be able to carry out her responsibilities in the best way. the eu has understood this. the usefulness of csdp missions, both civilian and military, to achieve the stabilisation of african regions in crisis has not been demonstrated. i encourage the strengthening of european military cooperation for greater eu effectiveness in un peacekeeping missions.
in writing. ‒ meps welcomed the special contribution of the european union to the african continent, which is plagued by multiple regional conflicts with different origins. in the triangle of mauritania, libya, south sudan, no region is spared, no population is truly safe. the european union has a special mission in these conflict-affected regions, between a shared history and the will to intervene without interference and with respect for territorial sovereignty. 1.5 billion people worldwide live in conflict-affected areas, which means that the urgency of the situation and the need to act for peace and security are two conditions for development in the world. by voting for this resolution, meps sent a strong signal of support to these suffering countries, where many of the scourges are concentrated: poverty, corruption, ethnic conflicts, human rights violations, the list goes on... boko haram, aqmi, mujao, terrorism is spreading across africa; it is our duty to fight it. there is still time for the eu to find a concerted and common response. it's our common destiny. this resolution is a guarantee of that.
in writing. ‒ the support and efforts of the united nations, the african union, the united states, nato, many european countries and the european union to support peace in africa are essential. nevertheless, i believe it is also our duty to help africa develop its own capacities so that african countries can be more directly involved in maintaining peace on their continent. in addition, in the interests of efficiency, i consider it important to avoid duplication of various un-approved missions. the european union must strive to allocate tasks efficiently and must focus on areas where it can bring the greatest added value. i agree with what is said in this report and have decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ 1.5 billion people worldwide live in unstable and conflict-affected regions and fragile states, and ungoverned spaces are expanding, leaving many people in poverty in lawless areas where corruption and violence are rife. coordinated external action implementing diplomacy, security and development tools is needed to restore confidence and address the challenges posed by war, internal conflict, insecurity, fragility and transitions. the attitude of europe may not always be blameless, but i welcome this report and i am in favour of the policy pursued by mrs mogherini.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report for a number of reasons. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is a priority for the eu's engagement in africa. it refers to the porosity of borders, which is one of the main factors for the development of terrorism in africa.
in writing. ‒ i share the concern about unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, but this report puts too much power in the hands of the commission and the eu.
in writing. ‒ unfair trading practices are practices that deviate significantly from good trading practice and in which the trading partners do not see eye to eye. especially for smes and micro-enterprises, which represent over 99% of the food and drink producing enterprises, late payments, unilateral or retroactive changes to contractual terms and the refusal to sign written contracts are highly problematic. i therefore support parliament's call on the commission to submit legislative proposals to combat unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, in order to ensure adequate incomes for farmers and a wide choice for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this own-initiative report which stresses the need to eliminate unfair trading practices (restriction of market access, unilateral contractual changes, etc.) in the food supply chain, in particular to improve the situation of farmers who are heavily affected by these practices.
in writing. unfair trading practices in the food and non-food supply chain have a detrimental effect on the eu economy as a whole, depriving businesses of their capacity to invest and innovate. in this context, the weaker party often does not take any legal action because it fears that the business relationship will be terminated. while the european commission has called on member states to find ways of giving small producers and retailers greater protection against unfair trading practices, the problem is far from being solved. the reason for this is that the member states persist in adopting different positions on the matter. the report has the merit of highlighting the risks associated with unfair practices: strong and coherent action is needed at union level to eliminate these unfair practices completely. the ultimate aim is to stimulate reflection and find solutions to this problem within the european internal market.
in writing. ‒ unfair trading practices are still present in our economy, particularly in the agri-food sector. delayed payments, restricted market access, unjustified termination of contracts, pressure to lower product prices - the list goes on! these practices must stop now. the european parliament voted this week in favour of a resolution on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. it is not just a question of ethics, but also of common sense and collective pragmatism. the food supply chain is of strategic importance for the european union; the agri-food sector employs over 47 million people and generates 4.3 percent of our gdp. as a reminder, since 2009, the european parliament has adopted five resolutions on problems in the eu distribution system. today's resolution is the culmination of that. this is to say that we will continue to protect our fellow citizens and above all that we will do everything to avoid creating a climate of uncertainty in our european market. we want to preserve the spirit of mutual trust, mutual aid and fraternity which is characteristic of our europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on the european executive to come forward with proposals to combat unfair trading practices (utps) in the food supply chain. in the context of the crisis - which we know - which is affecting the milk and meat sectors in particular, we have asked that the eu adopt legislation to combat these unfair practices (payment delays, limitation of market access, unilateral changes to contractual terms, unjustified termination of contracts, unfair transfer of commercial risk and transfer of transport and storage costs to suppliers). union-wide framework legislation is needed to combat pcds and to ensure that european farmers and consumers benefit from fair conditions of sale and purchase (in particular with a view to ensuring fairer and more transparent trade relations between producers, suppliers and distributors in the sector). it should be noted that the eu already had legislation to combat unfair business-to-consumer trading practices (directive 2005/29/ec), but there were no european rules to combat unfair practices between operators in the agri-food chain. unfair commercial practices were then only partially covered by the competition law.
in writing. ‒ the power of supermarkets has been known for some time and europe has already taken several initiatives to combat this. this is not the first time that these unfair trading practices have been the subject of debate. the commission is also aware of the problem, but would prefer that the food supply chain develops a self-regulatory initiative or that the member states take the initiative. we don't think that's such a good idea. large supermarkets are only growing in power and increasingly transnational. they thus have an increasing impact on pricing and contract negotiations, where terms are often changed unilaterally. these trade practices create a level playing field. moreover, the self-regulatory chain initiative does not seem to be working. farmers' organisations in several member states are already boycotting it because it is not enforceable and no anonymous complaints can be lodged. this excellent report therefore calls on the commission to come up with a legislative initiative (a directive) to combat these unfair trading practices and to give some more substance to the self-regulatory chain initiative. not only through anonymous complaints or better enforceability, but also independent management of such an initiative and better follow-up, for example through unannounced checks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text because its aim is to highlight the problem of unfair trading practices and, while emphasising the initiatives that have already been taken at national or european level, whether national regulatory measures or self-regulatory initiatives, to stimulate reflection on other possibilities for solving the problem of unfair trading practices within the european internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted wholeheartedly in favour of this report because it, together with the report by my liberal colleague, mr huitema, conveys a positive message and expresses faith in the future of our agriculture in europe. the report focuses on the position of the individual small producer in the chain consultation and the sometimes difficult situations in which they find themselves vis-à-vis multinationals.
in writing. – i strongly endorse this report because i believe that the eu is an environment in which all enterprises should be able to thrive. smes in particular are the backbone of our economy. small producers and retailers of food products are a part of this group. therefore, it is only normal that they receive sufficient protection against utps (unfair trading practices). while i strongly support the free market and all the benefits that it brings us, we cannot allow it to be abused. i welcome the fact that in depth-studies into the problems with regard to utps have been concluded. their results clearly show the need for this resolution. however, whatever the actions or legislation that is being called for, one should refrain from unnecessary intervention in the free market.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated that the world population will increase by 2.4 billion people by 2050, requiring more food to be produced. however, at least one third - in some areas, almost half - of food production is wasted. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. to counteract these unfavourable developments, sustainable food production and healthy diets must be ensured. the former in particular is becoming increasingly difficult for farmers to implement, as the declining availability of arable land, environmental loss and damage, water scarcity, the increasing demand for energy and the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting considerable pressure on our natural environment. this is why scientists and farmers should work together to find innovative technical solutions that can increase productivity and sustainability. this cooperation shall ensure that the solutions developed are also realistic and applicable in practice. in order to ensure that all farmers benefit from these benefits, solutions must also be found to enable small farms to benefit from the most costly and administrative technologies. i also support making agriculture, which is lacking in skilled workers, more attractive and countering the decline in training, education and innovation centres.
in writing. - i voted against this report. while technological change is important in addressing challenges such as the growing need for food, the text is not acceptable as it puts forward a pro-industrial, dehumanized, pro-pesticide and pro-gmo vision to increase food production, and the report does not even mention the fight against waste.
in writing. agricultural challenges are significant given the high global population growth. by 2050, the world's population will reach 9.6 billion, 2.4 billion more than today. in view of this ever-growing demand, food production will have to increase proportionately, by between 60% and 110%. the demand for safe and healthy food products for the citizens of the european union is growing. this demand is compounded by the many yield losses caused by climate change, which require adaptation of existing production models. it is therefore important to support the development of sustainable operating models by emphasising the urgent need for technological innovation. technological advances are needed to enable better use and conservation of genetic resources. in addition, it is essential to ensure that the excellence of local breeds is preserved and that farmers are allowed to select and exchange plants autonomously in order to preserve the genetic diversity of european agriculture. the development of emerging technologies within the union should therefore be encouraged in order to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of european agricultural production on a global scale.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote, parliament has called by a very large majority for the union to put innovation back at the heart of the european agricultural project. the eu must use the full potential of 21st century technologies, both mechanical and digital, to become a world leader in this field. it is an economic issue, but also an imperative for environmental performance in a world increasingly vulnerable to the symptoms of global warming: unusual heat, water shortages, the emergence of new pests. we also need to implement the agricultural model that will respond to malnutrition, with nearly 850 million people worldwide suffering from it, and global food demand expected to increase by 70% by 2050. any solution will require bringing together member states, academia and industry (from seed producers to producers and processors) to revitalise the sector and create a more dynamic agricultural market. in the light of the new plant breeding techniques, parliament insisted that the debate on whether they fall under the gmo directive should not be settled until it had received the commission's legal analysis, which is expected in the course of 2016.
in writing. ‒ in voting on this report, the european parliament considered that innovation could contribute to sustainable agriculture in the union and that precision farming technologies are particularly important. parliament stressed the importance of opening up the conservation of genetic resources to a greater diversity of plant and animal species and of ensuring that research funding translates into technological improvements in agriculture and horticulture.
in writing. ‒ this is a very bad report, clearly written by the agro-industry. it's the opposite of what i and the greens stand for. it seems to be aimed at clearing the way for two dossiers pending before the commission. it wants to keep the so-called new genetic engineering out of the current gmo legislation. it also sets criteria for approving so-called 'low-risk pesticides'. not only could 15 to 30 new pesticides be brought to market, but the report also makes the refit (for better regulation) check unnecessary in view of the revision of existing eu legislation on plant protection products. it also undermines the precautionary principle by adopting an (american) agrochemical approach to the pesticide approval procedure. for example, the emphasis is on possible damage after the fact, while europe is moving towards a risk assessment in advance. in the context of the ttip negotiations, this report is very useful to them. the report undermines the entire international nagoya protocol on combating bio-piracy. the fact that the text touches on so many environmental issues and has not even been before the environment committee is bad faith and is actually unacceptable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on innovation in agriculture, and in particular on farm management. the report highlights the need to combat food waste: 100 million tonnes of food are consumed in europe every year. the report highlights a range of techniques to reduce fertiliser use, improve soil and water management and precision agriculture. the report has been improved by the socialists, and we now have concepts such as the reference to small family farms, animal welfare, the fight against food waste, the role of agroforestry systems, all of which were absent from the draft report. however, this is a report that looks at agriculture from a productivist perspective: producing more and more, now with the innovative tools of varietal creation, without these being explicitly named: the techniques of genome editing that the industry does not want to see called "genetic modification", but for which it still wants to obtain patent protection. so i turned down the offer.
in writing. ‒ the mcintyre report, together with the huitema report, sends a positive message to our producers. i voted for this report with conviction because it contains very detailed proposals which can help our farmers and bring about innovation. nor does this report ignore the responsibility of the public authorities.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this parliamentary resolution. a stable food supply is indispensable to the health of the eu citizen, but also for the rest of the world. however, we are currently facing strong challenges in this regard. as demand will only increase towards the future, we need to address these challenges. it is my belief that technology plays a pivotal role in providing these solutions. it will enable us to obtain our environmental goals, while at the same time maintaining our productivity and competitiveness. thus, this resolution’s main message is to support the use of technology in agriculture. one way of doing this is to support r&d. but we also need farmers and scientists to be working closer together. with regard to the latter, we need to ensure that we attract the necessary expertise. in addition, they need to be provided with the necessary resources. finally, i also recognise the high potential of horizon 2020 in the development of agri-tech.
in writing. ‒ i support the call for efficient and innovative agriculture, the prevention of food waste and the more efficient use of resources, but this report overstates the inevitability of ever more productive and industrial agriculture, with a doubling of agricultural productivity by 2030, which seems unrealistic to me.
in writing. ‒ it is estimated that the world population will increase by 2.4 billion people by 2050, requiring more food to be produced. however, at least one third - in some areas, almost half - of food production is wasted. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. to counteract these unfavourable developments, sustainable food production and healthy diets must be ensured. the former in particular is becoming increasingly difficult for farmers to implement, as the declining availability of arable land, environmental loss and damage, water scarcity, the increasing demand for energy and the emergence of new pests and diseases are putting considerable pressure on our natural environment. innovative and technical solutions can help to counteract these negative developments. the aim is to update outdated legislation and to improve the exchange of knowledge between the chemical, health and technology sectors. in view of the unfavourable circumstances, i strongly support the proposal to counter this by means of innovation. the promotion of the use of new management systems, real-time data monitoring, sensor technology and the use of detection systems to optimise production systems must be pursued in order to enable sustainable agriculture.
in writing. the expected increase in the world population to 9.1 billion people by 2050 will require a 60% increase in food supplies. soil everywhere is losing its inherent fertility due to degradation, and in particular soil erosion due to climate change. it is therefore essential to modify and modernise agricultural techniques in an innovative and sustainable way in order to meet the increased demand for food products. to overcome these problems, we are encouraging the adoption of innovative agriculture, which offers new technological approaches to land use and reduces erosion while optimising production. to do this, more investment is needed to implement plant protection management systems using sustainable solutions and more environmentally friendly pesticides. the objective of a sustainable agricultural system can only be achieved if natural resources are used responsibly with the help of new innovative technological means to maximise the yield of land.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has voted in favour of this report on strengthening innovation in the agricultural sector. precision farming offers new approaches to management of the whole farm, such as gps/gnss guided machines, which allow arable land to be worked to the nearest centimetre. the report also calls for the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's environmental policy is not distorted by the use of pesticides and other harmful substances. the text of the adopted report also calls for the continuous development of innovative plant breeding techniques, 'while maintaining the european union's seed banks, as this is a crucial element in ensuring the effective development of new varieties with higher yields, higher nutritional value and better resistance to pests, diseases and adverse weather conditions, and in ensuring greater biodiversity'.
in writing. ‒ like mrs mcintyre's report, this own-initiative report is completely against our logic. it focuses on high-tech, high-investment, high-cost solutions. it is based on the idea that europe must feed the world and it extrapolates the figures of population growth on a world scale. and it's driving productivity growth, precision farming, exports, and a corporate approach that will lead to less employment and more factory farming for meat production. it also 'repackages' the classic approach to fertilisers and pesticides that makes the farmer dependent on these inputs alone. despite the fact that we have been able to make a considerable correction to this report, some sensitive points remain. the rapporteur would like to promote climate smart agriculture. that's an interesting point to think about, but agroecology is also climate smart and doesn't use new genetic engineering. many aspects of this report are environmental issues that would not have made it through the environment committee because they go against the mainstream. perhaps that is why the report was not discussed by the committee on the environment? in the end, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ my dutch liberal colleague jan huitema has convinced me very much of his vision for the future of agriculture in europe. the report is positive and emphasizes the innovation and economic viability of our primary producers. i voted for this report with conviction.
in writing. – i endorse this parliamentary resolution. the agricultural sector is an important part of our economy. as is the case in all sectors, continuous technological innovation is needed if supply wants to meet demand. at the same time it will help to achieve this goal in a sustainable manner. with this in mind, this resolution calls for increasing flexibility in this sector and more space to be left for innovation. therefore, any legislation needs to be targeted and have a clear purpose. legislation that is out-of-date or obsolete should either be updated or removed. in addition, we need to enhance better cooperation with other sectors. this will eventually lead to more innovation, an improved agri-food chain and new jobs. to conclude, by embracing technology and innovation, the eu’s agricultural sector will remain one of the most modern, efficient and competitive in the world.
for the ecr group the commission is presenting a new master plan today. the intention seems to be to provide financial support to the main african transit countries in exchange for two benefits. first, they must stop migrants by fighting human traffickers. secondly, they must take back illegal migrants from europe. nva previously called for the conclusion of 'anti-drowning agreements' with all countries around the mediterranean. we are witnessing today that it is being heeded. it is proposed that the eu should send migrants back to tunisia, egypt, mali, and so on, while at the same time making efforts to resettle genuine refugees. push-backs, combined with relocation, so, our familiar mantra. the eu border and coast guard, which i am actively contributing to as a shadow rapporteur, can carry out these return operations. in order to achieve a comprehensive approach, we now have to introduce a maximum ceiling for the reception of asylum seekers.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all let me say to the commission that i am very pleased with the global approach that you have finalised this morning – alongside the european border and coast guard, the new asylum system and the new proposals on economic migration. let us hope that we achieve a result by the end of the year. i have to tell you that this is also a bit of a personal matter, because my first european council was in 1999 in the north of finland in tampere, where we decided: from now on there is going to be a european asylum and migration policy. that was decided in principle in 1999 and now, 17 years later – i should say, finally – maybe we are nearly there. so i am positive about the global approach, but i am more critical about the idea of now making migration compacts with third countries. if the commission intends to simply duplicate the deal with turkey, then i have a number of key problems with this, because i have here amnesty international’s report of one week ago about this turkey deal. for europe it is a way forward. there are fewer people coming to europe – at any rate in that part of the mediterranean, because, in the meanwhile, there is an increase in the number of people flowing to europe in other parts of the mediterranean and i think the one is connected to the other. but in addition to that – and independently from that – what the report is saying is that for the refugees this is certainly not the solution to their problems. they live in awful conditions. there are more than 100 000 of these migrants who are stuck between is and a wall that turkey is building up, kilometre by kilometre, on the border with syria. at the same time there is no possibility for these people to have asylum, because turkey has not ratified all the protocols of the geneva convention and so asylum is not possible for syrian refugees. the conclusion, then, is that for refugees this deal is tragic. it is a drama. it is a problem. so to say today that we have the solution to our problems, that we are simply going to duplicate the deal with turkey and we are going to roll it out to all the other countries: sorry, i do not think that is the way forward in the future. it is simply saying: ok, we will give you money and you keep the refugees. well, that cannot be the deal. that cannot be a compact. so my proposal is that, instead of having this migration compact, we need a real partnership with these countries. this real partnership has, i think, some tricky elements. it first of all means us, together – not them – us europeans together, opening reception centres in these countries to pick up these migrants and refugees, in reception centres – in libya, in egypt, in tunisia, in lebanon, in jordan, in the north african countries. secondly, in these reception centres we can manage this together and make a distinction between those who are real refugees who can be resettled inside the european union – which is one possibility – and those who are migrants. for our part we need to establish projects in the transit countries or in the countries of origin to give them a life, an expectation and a future in these countries of origin. there the situation is better than ever because, let us not forgot, africa today has growth of between 4% and 5%. there is a basis for good projects in these transit countries and countries of origin. that seems to me to be the way forward, not to say: we are giving you money, we have already been promising you money for two decades but we never gave it to you, now you can have it if you keep the refugees. for me that is not a compact. if that is the compact, i am against it. i hope it will not be by accident if we can make real partnerships with them, managing the borders together, making projects in the transit countries and so on. then it is a way forward. so you have to adapt your proposal in that way. finally, on the last element, the question of the blue card, i have to tell you one thing. the blue card – which does not in fact exist for the moment, there are 10 000 blue cards – is a good attempt. i do not think that a directive is the right way forward, mr timmermans. i think there is a better way forward, which is to make one blue card, like there is one green card in the us: one blue card instead of a directive which will lead to 28 blue cards in the european union. i think we, as the european parliament, have the task, with you, to push the council to accept one system instead of the 28 systems that could result from this directive. (applause)
in what you, the rulers of this unholy european union, call a migration pact, you say that there is a need for a more european approach to migration. i can assure the citizens of the union, however, that this pact is anything but compact. the door is being thrown wide open to what you call legal forms of migration, to a further extension of blackmail agreements like the 'dirty deal' with erdogan, to new taxes through migration obligations and to all sorts of other variations on your ever-recurring theme of more resources, more tax money for more and more immigration. the citizens of the union have been warned. the failure of schengen and the failure of the european union's open borders policy should not lead to the conclusion that there is more, but logically less, need than ever for a european approach to migration.
for the ecr group no one will deny that europe is facing major demographic challenges, today and certainly in the future. so it is in itself a very good thing that the eu is thinking about its policy and is having the debate now. there is a lot of food on the table today for discussion. i shall confine myself to a few key points. first of all, let me stress and reiterate that asylum and migration are two different issues that need to be dealt with separately. for example, asylum cannot solve the structural internal economic deficiencies, and legal migration cannot solve the asylum crisis. that brings me to my second point. the revision of the blue card directive. it is essential for our economy that europe can attract highly qualified people. but, i repeat, the blue card cannot be a shortcut to asylum. i therefore stress the importance of an effective vacancy that can only be filled by the blue card. a review of the blue card directive should recognise that member states are best placed to assess the needs of their national labour market. finally, once in europe, it is important that newcomers integrate well. i therefore support the proposal to make european funds available for the integration of newcomers. it is important that these funds go to the competent institutions and the member states so that they can spend them themselves in accordance with their own local needs.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this plan is vital to prevent people from embarking on a hopeless and dangerous journey to europe. we share the belief that this marshall plan must usher in a strategic partnership for europe and for africa, and that it must succeed. secondly, legal migration to europe with the facilitation of the blue card is one of the essential instruments for managing that migration, contrary to what the previous speaker said. it is extremely important that we finally work out a single blue card model so that you, commissioner, can indeed, with our help, put an end to the fragmented conditions with 28 different cards. that would be a huge step forward. the fact that it is more attractive for migrants with specific qualifications to come to europe is of course very important not only for the migrants themselves, but it is also vital for our economy. the previous speaker obviously did not quite grasp this. the battle for talent at the global level is not being decided today in the european union's favour. we really need to change that. finally, let us not forget that we must at the same time do everything possible to ensure that young people seeking employment in the european union are given as much guidance as possible in their search for a job.
i do not need to remind you of the army of european youth without a decent job. in flanders, the figures are still quite low, especially compared with some southern european regions. but we have our pain points. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's education system. this is why this new skills agenda is not a day too soon, because it offers an answer to these specific pain points. people are always more than the degree they possess. everyone has their own backpack, their own talents. these ten initiatives should not only make it clear to the individual and to the prospective employer what exactly is in the backpack, but also fill the backpack itself. and that has to be done throughout a career, a career that for someone starting out today is going to be quite long. careers of 45 years will be no exception for my generation. the shift from diplomas to skills offers opportunities. it's not like young talent's gonna go unnoticed like this. the slightly more mature talents can be encouraged to go in a different direction. europass, for example, can be an even better tool for this. with jobs tailored to the right person in the right place, no job is too hard. with what is on the agenda for new skills, europeans will be much better prepared to keep that long career challenging, human and varied.
in writing. the skills guarantee presented in the framework of the strategy for new skills is essential. in the context of the promotion of mobility, it is essential to make skills and qualifications comparable at european level. barriers to access to the labour market, especially for low-skilled adults, must be removed. this requires strengthening the basic skills not only needed for work but also, and above all, for social integration into society. i am in favour of the recognition of both formal and informal learning, because experience is knowledge in itself. bridges must be built between education, vocational training and the world of work. both professional and apprentice sectors are in demand. with its supporting role, the european union plays a key role as a link between the various actors and allows the best practices identified in the member states to be tested. europe has 22 million unemployed, including 5.2 million young people, while shortages are being noted in many sectors. let us bring these two worlds together by creating the conditions favourable to employment and by taking account of the specificities of the labour markets in the various member states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in bangladesh is not further worsened. the government is increasingly repressive towards the media, civil society, human rights defenders and the opposition, and on the other hand, the outbreak of religiously inspired violence shows that a fundamentalist movement within islam is trying to gain a foothold. many feel that the government is doing too little to punish violence and to stop extremism. if bangladesh slips further and looks for an answer in religious rhetoric, the consequences could be dramatic. i agree with the emphasis and priorities you have set. the eu has levers. we are the largest trading partner and the most important customer of textiles thanks to intensive cooperation. bangladesh can benefit from the eu's 'everything but arms' initiative, which allows it to export to the eu without import tariffs. this cannot be taken for granted and unconditionally. in the aftermath of the rana plaza textile disaster, we have proven that we can make business move. use the levers consistently to support a healthy democratic culture and political stability.
mr president, the human rights situation in bangladesh is indeed a worrying one and the reports from the ngos show us how alarming it is. if the authorities have a responsibility to ensure that fundamental rights and human rights are respected, we also have a responsibility to ensure that our european companies respect decent work and respect human rights when they are the decision makers in these countries. we were all outraged after rana plaza, yes, but what did we do to change things? not much: no legislative initiatives by the commission or the council to ensure that these companies respect human rights. nor are there any regulatory initiatives in relation to the repair which should be done by the companies. no parliamentary initiatives on the obligation of these companies to be held accountable. we talk a lot about political crimes, and that's important; i think we need to put economic crime on the agenda and then we have the opportunity to decide.
i fully understand the european commission's wish to communicate positively about its projects, and that seems logical to me. but one may ask whether this hooray-communication is not a little premature today. firstly, i note that the commission has already announced today that the plan will be extended. i've been looking at the situation. i see a whole series of projects that have just been drawn up or have not even been drawn up yet. i see figures on investment and jobs which are still mainly estimates and i see that there has also been almost no independent analysis. so it may be a little early to draw all these seemingly definitive conclusions. we have agreed that the european investment bank will evaluate the plan and that this must be done within 18 months. i haven't seen that analysis either, unless i've missed something. we'll have to wait for that anyway. only if the analysis is positive, if it shows that the objectives of the plan are being achieved, can the european commission possibly propose an extension. but i suggest that we should have a good discussion about this in this parliament, and in the council as well, about how that should be set up or not. second, the theme of the day: we have to look at the situation in the developing countries. yes, we must strengthen that economy and the european union can play a role in that. but i also want to call for a reversal of the naivete. we all realise that not all the countries involved will be equally stable and loyal partners. so we will have to use extra controls to avoid corruption and bad investments. i am not necessarily against it, but i would urge that we do not act hastily. finally, let us not lose sight of the essential point. the efsi can have a very positive impact on our economy, on the investment climate. but if we really want to change the way we work, then the member states will have to reform. i was therefore very pleased, commissioner, that it was precisely that first and very elaborate point of your speech, namely that we must work towards those structural reforms.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the juncker plan should rightly be the big deal of this parliament, because the european economy is deeply sick with a chronic lack of investment, both public and private. but what about the cure? the resources for this plan are so modest - we are talking about less than 1% of european gdp - and so dispersed, both geographically and thematically, that this sprinkling seems to me to be more homeopathic than the horse medicine our economy needs. in concrete terms, if you want this plan to have any chance of success and of having a macroeconomic impact, it must be substantially strengthened by the member states with the capacity, but above all it must be concentrated. focused both on countries suffering from a lack of investment and a lack of investment capacity - it is still incredible that we finance countries like germany, which has all the investment capacity in the world - but also thematically focused on the great project of european added value, i mean the energy transition. energy is at the heart of the economy, and the energy transition, energy independence, is a strategic, economic and ecological imperative for the union. this is a good thing, because the countries on the periphery are those which need the most investment, but also those which offer the greatest potential for renewable energy. but the great contradiction in your policy, mr katainen, is that while you are pressing the accelerator modestly with this investment plan, you are pressing the brakes with all your might, both by the application of budgetary and accounting rules which hamper public investment, by an obsession with structural reforms which are pushing more and more europeans into poverty and exclusion every day, thus reducing aggregate demand, and, even more, by the refusal to hold those states which are deliberately running massive deficits - and i am thinking of germany, of course - accountable for their domestic demand. if you really want to pull the european economy out of the hole, mr vice-president, you will have to get out of this schizophrenia.
the efsi is a kind of hocus-pocus project, where you have the european union, following the example of jesus christ, proclaim a kind of multiplication of the loaves of bread in favour of what you call more risky projects. belgium now has three infrastructure projects, i take that as an example, which are funded by the efsi. the commission is proposing to increase the amount of the loan to eur 380 million, which should bring investment totalling eur 1.8 billion and create 3200 jobs. - that's great. give it up! how you can achieve that in an sme country like belgium and justify it with three projects is a mystery to me. and so it is a puzzle to you too, because the figures are not explained anywhere. i call that hocus-pocus statistics. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. in flanders we have had enough experience with the green energy craze and the mountain of debt that it causes. anyway, i'm not impressed with your good news show. this efsi fund is not a new deal for europe. in the euro context, it is rather a new mountain of debt for the european people in the long run.
the s&d group was undoubtedly one of the strongest supporters of investment policy and of the efsi. but you will find in the many interventions that there is some criticism of the success story that is being presented. the figures are there, but for our group, investing for the sake of investing is not enough. it's about what we invest in. it's about the energy transition, the circular economy, the low-carbon economy. that should be the priority. it is beyond words that money is being taken away, for example from the european connections facility, to invest in motorways. we want to see a change in the efsi in the future. we want more investment in sustainable economy and we also want much more investment in small projects. so, not business as usual, not re-igniting projects that already existed, but really focusing on the new challenges in europe.
on behalf of the group of the european right, i would like to welcome the group to the gallery. more than ever, the european union must focus on its own backyard, on our neighbours, on our region. we must take responsibility for this and i see that tunisia is fully building up this new democracy. i see the seeds of progress. at the same time, no one will deny that this is a process of falling and rising. there are the great socioeconomic challenges, the skyrocketing youth unemployment, for example, but also the difficult recovery from the terrorist attacks. tunisia - as the rapporteur has also said - has a very important role to play for the european union as a strategic, reliable partner in the region. so we must support the country in this difficult transition to a fully-fledged stable democracy. good trade policy is crucial to this. the fact that we are now giving a new tranche of this macrofinancial assistance is an important step towards greater stability. you can count on my support, but we don't give out blank checks. we ask that something be substituted for it: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms.
in writing. ‒ i wholeheartedly support the resolution of the european parliament to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate money laundering, tax evasion and tax evasion. tax avoidance by companies must be tackled, because the eu should not support small and medium-sized enterprises having to pay their taxes while multinational corporations can avoid them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i also welcome the fact that the european parliament has called for more transparency in trusts and foundations.
in writing. we voted in favour of the opening of a commission of inquiry which will shed light on the scandal of the so-called panama papers. the commission of inquiry will broaden its scope of investigation to include the mechanisms that enable money laundering, one of the main reasons why a group of individuals organize tax fraud on this scale. the mechanisms which organise money laundering must also be those which finance international terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i support the panama papers commission of inquiry in its task of shedding light on alleged breaches and shortcomings in the application of european legislation on money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. these revelations reveal behaviour which is unacceptable, in terms of fairness, ethics and also economically. i also call for a european tax inspectorate, capable of carrying out an investigation, of monitoring the files and of condemning the practices that should be. more generally, i am in favour of the adoption of european rules to regulate tax optimisation which, while legal, nevertheless raises a moral question when it benefits the big companies and the wealthiest, who are able to implement such engineering, to the detriment of smes and citizens. the member states, which are responsible for this, must assume their responsibilities in order to establish a fairer and more equitable tax system.
in writing. ‒ i of course vote in favour of the decision on the establishment of a committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breaches of eu law and maladministration in the application of eu law in the field of money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud, as well as on its powers, numerical composition and mandate. i would like to highlight the excellent work done by my colleague, mr hugues bayet, in this area.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this decision for obvious reasons. it is clear that we cannot accept malicious activities such as money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. the eu has laws in place to counter these. however, they will only be effective if they are abided by. more specifically, when it comes to enforcement and implementation, these are, respectively, the responsibilities of the commission and the member states. when there is any suspicion that they are not following up on their obligations, it is my duty as an mep to support the call for an investigation.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period for the republic of palau, a democratically stable state and part of the acp countries. this will not only help to strengthen economic and cultural exchanges but also to foster political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i support the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver. the agreement signed in 2015 provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the republic of palau for 90 days in any 180-day period on european soil and vice versa. this treatment will apply to all persons except those engaged in gainful employment, in which case it will be for the member state to legislate. i am in favour of this agreement because it will send a strong political message in the framework of the cotonou agreements by strengthening the relations between the eu and palau. the agreement is culturally and politically important as palau shares the union's values and principles of good governance and has made great progress in human rights. the agreement could therefore have a beneficial economic impact by simplifying investment and boosting various economic sectors.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted this afternoon in favour of the introduction of a new and more flexible visa regime between the european union and the republic of palau. the agreement on visa-free short-stay visits is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and this country in oceania. in continuity with the cotonou agreement (acp-eu agreement) linking the union with the pacific states, this agreement is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations with the republic of palau and intensifying political dialogue. on the economic side, investment and trade with palau have a high potential for development which this agreement is likely to encourage. the country is expected to receive eur 1,6 million from the 11th edf (2014-2020), focusing on renewable energy and civil society. the agreement will allow 21 000 palauans to discover the riches of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report giving the european parliament's consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of palau on the short-stay visa waiver signed on 7 december 2015. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and palau nationals in the territory of the other contracting party. the maximum duration of the stay is 90 days over the entire 180-day period. i voted in favour of this visa waiver in particular because palau is a democratic republic fully committed to human rights, which are enshrined in the constitution.
in writing. ‒ i have acceded to the rapporteur's request. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and palau who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period for the kingdom of tonga, a democratically stable state and part of the acp countries. this will not only help to strengthen economic and cultural exchanges but also to foster political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. i welcome the approval given by parliament to the conclusion of the visa waiver agreement with the kingdom of tonga. as a partner of the union under the cotonou agreement, the kingdom of tonga is engaged in a political dialogue with the union on such crucial issues as the abolition of the death penalty and the fight against violence against women. i am pleased that this visa waiver agreement will further strengthen the partnership between the union and the kingdom of tonga. more generally, it also represents a further step forward in our relations with the pacific countries and sends a strong signal of cooperation and support for the efforts made by these countries, particularly in the field of human rights.
in writing. ‒ meps, in adopting the gabriel report, gave their agreement to the introduction of a new, more flexible visa regime between the european union and the kingdom of tonga. the agreement on the short-stay visa exemption is the culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and this pacific state. in continuity with the cotonou agreement (acp-eu agreement) linking the union with the pacific states, this agreement is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations with the kingdom of tonga and intensifying political dialogue, in particular on the question of human rights and fundamental freedoms. on the political front, this agreement can enable us to intensify our partnership, with emphasis on such aspects as the abolition of the death penalty, the fight against violence against women and gender equality. the visa exemption can therefore be a positive sign of support for this country and its many efforts. benefits are also expected in terms of tourism; the visa-free agreement will enable european citizens to travel at a reduced economic and practical cost.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report giving the european parliament's consent to the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga on the short-stay visa waiver signed on 20 november 2015. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for nationals of tonga in the territory of the other contracting party. the duration of the stay is up to 90 days in any 180-day period. i voted in favour of this visa waiver in particular because this agreement will make it possible to intensify the partnership between the european union and the kingdom of tonga, with emphasis on aspects such as the abolition of the death penalty, the fight against violence against women and gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i have acceded to the rapporteur's request. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for nationals of tonga who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for the republic of colombia for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this will not only help to strengthen economic and cultural exchanges but also to foster political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the approval given by the european parliament to the conclusion of the visa waiver agreement with colombia. this agreement is a further step towards strengthening relations between the union and this latin american country. the areas in which the union and colombia can cooperate successfully are many and varied. political dialogue on human rights, security and the fight against organised crime and irregular migration are among the actions and policies on which both sides have a strong interest in working together. the strengthening of ties with colombia, enshrined in the visa-free agreement, will also provide a new impetus in the areas of trade, tourism and investment. more generally, i am pleased that with this visa-free agreement colombia joins the other latin american countries whose nationals are already exempt from the visa requirement, because it contributes to the coherence of the union's action towards this continent.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted this afternoon in favour of the introduction of a new, more flexible visa regime between the european union and colombia. the privileged relations between the eu and this south american country, together with the fact that colombia is no longer the country with the sulphurous reputation, justify the conclusion of such a short-stay visa waiver agreement, which allows colombian citizens to travel freely in europe for 3 months, and vice versa. this agreement applies to all categories of persons, whatever their purpose of travel (e.g. tourism, cultural visits, scientific activities, family visits, business, etc.), except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. this is an additional opportunity for the european union to get closer to colombia by promoting contacts between people and enabling the development of tourism. this sector is doing very well, as evidenced by the 17.5% growth between august 2014 and 2015 in the number of colombian travellers visiting the european union, i.e. around 310 000 per year in 2014. there is every reason to believe that this agreement will have a positive impact on european tourism in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report giving the european parliament's consent to the conclusion of the eu-colombia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver signed on 2 december 2016. this agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and colombian nationals in the territory of the other contracting party. the duration of the stay is up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. ‒ i have acceded to the rapporteur's request. the signed agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and colombian nationals who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver is open to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ the first information technology trade agreement, or ita, entered into force in 1997. it was concluded between only 29 wto members at the time, but now has 82 members. according to the ita, each participant has to eliminate customs duties on all it covered goods, which has led to increased trade in the sector. although the technology has evolved and changed since the entry into force of the ita, the scope of the ita has remained the same. this is why the ita needs to be extended, as it has great potential for creating jobs and promoting growth. i therefore support the proposal for parliament's assent to the convention and share the view that more member states should join the convention.
in writing. ‒ the first information technology agreement (ita) was adopted in 1996 and was mainly aimed at eliminating customs duties on all it products covered (e.g. computers and telephones). in 2015, an agreement on an additional list of 201 products was reached and is subject to the approval of the european parliament. i have approved this point, which will allow for an increase in union exports following the reduction of tariff barriers.
in writing. i support the council decision to conclude, on behalf of the eu, the revised wto agreement on information technology (it). this revised agreement is the first tariff reduction agreement to be concluded at the wto in 18 years! the new agreement, which aims to phase out customs duties on imports of 201 information technology products, now covers products such as next-generation semiconductors, gps navigation systems, medical devices including magnetic resonance imaging equipment and ultrasonic scanning diagnostics, telecommunications satellites and touch screens. such an agreement should facilitate access to markets and offer more attractive prices for consumers. this agreement is essential when we consider that the world trade in these high tech products is worth, according to the wto, more than $1.3 trillion a year. i take this opportunity of the council's decision to recall the essential role of the wto as the global body for the establishment of trade rules and the governance of trade. such a rules-based multilateral trading system is a plus for the strength and stability of the world economy.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wants the union to become a major player in new information technologies, as was shown this afternoon by the adoption of a report giving its consent to the extension of the ati agreement. this is a text which came into force in 1997 and which abolishes customs duties on a range of information technology products such as computers and telephones. the agreement also covers components and machinery used in the manufacture of these products. under the ati, the participants commit themselves to the progressive elimination of customs duties over a period of up to 7 years. following these negotiations, approximately 65% of the duties will be completely eliminated by july 2016. by 2019, almost all imports of the products concerned will benefit from duty-free access. the union's exports of products covered by this enlargement amount to eur 189 billion, an amount which is expected to increase as a result of the reductions in the allowances. the agreement therefore has enormous potential in terms of job creation. the annual trade in these 201 products is estimated at over usd 1 140 billion per year, or about 10% of total world trade.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support the draft council decision to conclude, on behalf of the eu, the revised wto agreement on information technology (it). this is an important text as it is the first tariff reduction agreement to be concluded at the wto since 1995. the revised agreement extends the list of products covered to 201 new products. in addition to the inclusion of these new products, the agreement also provides for a phased commitment to reduce customs duties on these products. the european union has also succeeded in negotiating a phasing-out of tariff reductions over a longer period for certain products considered sensitive. the agreement, which was reached by ministers from 53 wto member countries on 16 december 2015, is expected to boost eu exports of these products. it should be noted that these exports now amount to eur 189 billion.
in writing. ‒ the agreement on the enlargement of the ati is historic, as it is the first major tariff reduction agreement since the creation of the wto and has enormous potential in terms of job creation and stimulating gdp growth. that is why i am pleased that the european parliament has given its approval to the conclusion of the agreement. i would like to stress, however, the importance of ensuring that more member states join the agreement so that the union can benefit fully from it.
in writing. ‒ α-pvp is a potent psychoactive substance. it has already been detected in 28 member states, as well as in turkey and norway, and is mainly imported from china into the eu drug market, mainly in powder or tablet form. two illegal manufacturing sites for this substance have already been seized in one member state, which shows that it can also be manufactured in the union. in total, 115 deaths and 191 acute poisonings have been reported in eight member states to date, where α-pvp has been detected. there is no comprehensive information or studies on the health risks (chronic and acute toxicity) of α-pvp, but animal observations suggest similar effects to those of other stimulants. the council therefore proposes that member states be obliged to subject α-pvp to the control measures and criminal sanctions provided for in their legislation in accordance with their obligations under the 1971 un convention on psychotropic substances. i have agreed to the council's proposal because i am at high risk of ill health. the substance can be harmful in large quantities. the precautionary approach in the interests of the citizens is for me a more than justified reason for supporting the introduction of control measures at union level.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which proposes to subject a new psychoactive substance to better controls.
in writing. i welcome the parliament's resolution on the council proposal to subject the new psychoactive substance alpha-pvp, a potent psychostimulant, to control measures throughout the union. as assessed by the scientific committee of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, the acute toxicity of alpha-pvp is such that its consumption may involve high health risks. since the substance has been detected in all eu countries as well as in turkey and norway, and has caused 115 deaths and 191 acute intoxications in eight member states, i consider it imperative that it be subject to control measures throughout the union. currently, 21 states already control the alpha-pvp. i am pleased that the subjecting of this substance to control measures throughout the union will contribute to the coherence of european action in the fight against such substances and may facilitate crossborder police and judicial cooperation in this respect.
in writing. - alpha-pvp is a powerful psychostimulant. the substance has been detected in all 28 member states as well as in turkey and norway, and is mainly imported into the european drug market from china before being distributed throughout europe. in total, 115 deaths and 191 acute poisonings were recorded in eight member states where alpha-pvp was reported. according to the risk assessment report, the acute toxicity of alpha-pvp is such that its consumption can seriously harm human health. in view of these factors, i have decided to approve the council's proposal to subject the new psychoactive substance alpha-pvp to control measures throughout the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision to subject the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((1-pyrrolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone, alpha-pvp) to control measures and followed our libe specialist.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea aims to ensure that persons who suffer damage as a result of the discharge of hazardous and noxious substances during their carriage by sea are adequately, promptly and effectively compensated. the convention was amended by a 2010 protocol, which incorporates protection against environmental damage. in order to become contracting parties to the protocol, member states must ratify it. this report, which i have approved, allows them to do so.
in writing. due to their intercontinental nature, maritime cargoes can lead to accidents with global repercussions involving harmful and potentially dangerous substances. it is in the interest of the european union to have a uniform system of liability for environmental damage caused by the transport of harmful and potentially dangerous substances by sea. with this report we have the opportunity to achieve a uniform system of liability in the most efficient and fair way possible, without altering the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of the common rules of union law, and without creating excessive disparities for the victims of pollution (e.g. coastal populations, fishermen, etc.) and the maritime industry. the opening of a dialogue with the council and the commission with a view to building a coherent european policy on liability and compensation for environmental damage resulting from the transport of harmful and potentially dangerous substances at sea is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns convention 1996) aims to ensure that persons who suffer damage as a result of the discharge of hazardous and noxious substances during their carriage by sea are adequately, promptly and effectively compensated. this 1996 hns convention was amended by the 2010 protocol and provides for improved protection of victims of damage related to the carriage of harmful and potentially dangerous substances by sea. i voted in favour of this resolution because i think it is a good thing that the commission and council have asked for a more thorough debate on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the unfccc will ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and redress in the event of accidents caused by ships carrying harmful and potentially dangerous substances at sea throughout the european union. it will also ensure that sufficient funds are available for compensation to victims of such accidents.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea aims to ensure that persons who suffer damage as a result of the discharge of hazardous and noxious substances during their carriage by sea are adequately, promptly and effectively compensated. the convention was amended by a 2010 protocol, which incorporates protection against environmental damage. in order to become contracting parties to the protocol, member states must ratify it. this report, which i have approved, allows them to do so.
in writing. ‒ the 1996 international convention on liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea (hns convention 1996) aims to ensure that persons who suffer damage as a result of the discharge of hazardous and noxious substances during their carriage by sea are adequately, promptly and effectively compensated. this 1996 hns convention was amended by the 2010 protocol and provides for improved protection of victims of damage related to the carriage of harmful and potentially dangerous substances by sea. i voted in favour of this resolution because i think it is a good thing that the commission and council have asked for a more thorough debate on this matter.
in writing. ‒ the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the unfccc will ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and redress in the event of accidents caused by ships carrying harmful and potentially dangerous substances at sea throughout the european union. it will also ensure that sufficient funds are available for compensation to victims of such accidents. therefore, we are of the opinion that, in order to ensure uniform application of the rules on liability and compensation in the event of accidents caused by ships carrying harmful and potentially dangerous substances at sea throughout the union, an international regime is more appropriate than regional solutions, given the global nature of the maritime sector and its cross-border implications.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the protocol to take account, in the framework agreement between the philippines and the union, of the accession of croatia to the union.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted this afternoon in favour of croatia's accession to the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between the european union and the philippines signed on 11 july 2012. this broad agreement covers enhanced cooperation in a wide range of political, economic and sectoral fields. it extends bilateral cooperation in the fields of trade, energy, transport, the environment, migration and the fight against corruption. the agreement also provides for increased cooperation in science and technology, governance, education, health, human rights and culture. the eu is already the philippines' fourth largest trading partner and there is every indication that the implementation of this agreement will have a positive impact on trade. these amounted to €12.5 billion in 2014. in the field of development and humanitarian aid, the commission plans to allocate €325 million for the period 2014-2020 with two priority themes: inclusive growth and the rule of law. croatia's participation in this agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the european union, which took effect on 1 july 2013.
in writing. ‒ the comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the philippines, of the other part, was signed in phnom penh on 11 july 2012. in accordance with its act of accession, croatia has committed itself to acceding to international agreements signed or concluded by the european union and its member states by means of a protocol to those agreements. in order for croatia to be included in this framework agreement as a contracting party, the european parliament had to give its approval to the protocol in question. it's done now.
in writing. ‒ i have given a '+' to the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the conclusion of a framework partnership and cooperation agreement between the union and the republic of the philippines. this partnership represents a further step in the eu's commitment to south-east asia, both economically and politically. it is therefore necessary to continue our financial support and development assistance, in particular to fight poverty and build capacity in the country while helping it to combat climate change.
in writing. the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (ppa) will help to strengthen bilateral relations between the eu and the philippines. the philippines is a promising economic partner: this market of 100 million consumers represents a huge potential for eu companies. the eu is the fourth largest trading partner of the philippines and the largest foreign investor in the country, with direct investments of over €6.2 billion. a free trade agreement between the philippines and the eu would be a win-win for both the eu and the philippines. sectoral cooperation objectives aimed at strengthening political and economic cooperation in areas such as energy, environment, taxation, migration, but also money laundering, terrorist financing, illicit drugs, organised crime and corruption, are essential in a globalised world. a geopolitical reading of the world quickly makes us understand our interdependence.
in writing. ‒ the philippines is a geographically remote country, but it is an important regional power with which we must logically cooperate. the philippines may also be close to us because it is a democratic country, where elections determine the fate of the government. we can't forget the economic opportunities this country provides. it is not only for these reasons that i support the framework agreement.
in writing. ‒ in approving the report of the chair of the committee on foreign affairs this afternoon, the european parliament gave its approval to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (pca) between the european union and the philippines, signed on 11 july 2012. this broad agreement covers enhanced cooperation in a wide range of political, economic and sectoral fields. it extends bilateral cooperation in particular in the fields of trade and investment, energy, transport, the environment, migration, the fight against proliferation, terrorism and corruption. the agreement also provides for increased cooperation in science and technology, governance, education, health, human rights and culture. on the economic front, the union is already the philippines' fourth largest trading partner and the implementation of this agreement will have an additional positive impact on trade. these amounted to €12.5 billion in 2014. in the field of development and humanitarian aid, the commission plans to allocate €325 million for the period 2014-2020 with two priority themes: inclusive growth and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ in 2004, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a framework agreement on partnership and cooperation (pca) with the philippines. negotiations with the philippines were opened in february 2009 and concluded in june 2010. the two sides initialled the saa on 25 june 2010 and the saa was signed on 11 july 2012 in phnom penh, at the asean regional forum ministerial meeting. the acp-philippines agreement is the first bilateral agreement with the philippines. it replaces the current legal framework of the 1980 cooperation agreement between the european economic community and the member countries of the association of southeast asian nations (asean). in the field of foreign policy, the cap contains commitments which are at the heart of the european union's foreign policy, including provisions on human rights, the fight against terrorism and the international criminal court. in view of this, i have decided, as have a majority of my colleagues, to give my approval to the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i followed the rapporteur on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the conclusion of a framework partnership and cooperation agreement between the union and the republic of the philippines. this partnership represents a further step in the eu's commitment to south-east asia, both economically and politically. it is therefore necessary to continue our financial support and development assistance, in particular to fight poverty and build capacity in the country while helping it to combat climate change.
in writing. with this framework partnership and cooperation agreement, the eu commits to providing financial support and capacity building assistance to the philippines to fight poverty. it will also help to promote social inclusion, ensure respect for human rights and the rule of law, promote peace, security and judicial reform, provide support for the country's disaster preparedness, relief and recovery, and implement effective climate change policies. there is a real risk that the philippine military will commit human rights violations and join the southeast asian-based islamic state group. in this specific case, the framework agreement will play a key role as it provides for the exchange of information, close cooperation with the philippines and support for the development of their capacities, in particular in the field of fundamental rights and respect for the rule of law in the international fight against terrorism. this framework agreement is a crucial step for the philippine government in the fight against corruption, human rights and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation with the philippines. beyond this agreement, i call on the union to continue to provide financial support and development assistance to the philippines to fight poverty and build capacity in the country while helping it to combat climate change. i also call on the philippines, through this resolution which i have supported, to take action to combat corruption and to promote the defence of human rights. this resolution also contains a series of recommendations to the member states of the union and to the philippines, which i share. that is why i supported this text.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i believe that the european union should continue to provide financial support and capacity building assistance to the philippines to fight poverty, promote social inclusion, ensure respect for human rights and the rule of law, promote peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform, provide support for the country's preparedness, disaster relief and recovery, and implement effective climate change policies. i also encourage the philippine government to continue to promote further progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights!
in writing. ‒ i voted against because, after other forms of support, preferential trade measures and a first tranche of macro-financial assistance, a second tranche of eur 500 million is now being granted 'to support a third country in crisis'. youth unemployment rates (28.6% in tunisia according to the report) are higher in some eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which aims to offer macro-financial assistance to tunisia, a country currently experiencing very serious security and economic difficulties, to help it on the path of democratic transition and economic reforms.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is ready to continue helping tunisia overcome its economic difficulties and return to a more sustainable growth path by voting this afternoon in favour of additional macro-financial assistance of eur 500 million. tunisia is struggling to overcome the serious economic difficulties that have been plaguing it since the beginning of the political and economic transition process. this situation was aggravated by the terrorist attacks in 2015 which hit two key sectors of the economy, tourism and transport. the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. the aim is to help certain sectors, such as olive oil production, to facilitate reforms to restore the balance of payments and the budgetary situation and to improve the investment climate. in short, parliament wants to help tunisia create the conditions for sustainable economic growth, which benefits everyone and creates jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a second €500 million macro-financial assistance plan to support tunisia's development. the european union has a vested interest in a stable, prosperous and peaceful neighbourhood. it is desirable to establish a political and economic partnership with tunisia. however, the country has been facing a severe economic downturn since the arab spring revolution, which has added to its huge debt. tunisia and its population are facing a particularly difficult situation: high unemployment, a tourism sector that has been devastated by terrorist attacks (while it represents half a million jobs), regional disparities, the migration and security challenge linked to neighbouring libya... this european loan, which is conditional on a series of reforms, is a strong signal of solidarity to the tunisian people. europe supports the democratic transition in tunisia and stands with its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text for several reasons. tunisia has managed to consolidate its democratic transition. it now has a constitution that protects rights and freedoms, with a consolidated judiciary and an emancipated media. it is led by a broad-based government, which has been elected through free and fair elections. but tunisia is going through very difficult times right now. it has been the target of repeated terrorist attacks and bombings that have deeply affected key economic sectors of the country, such as tourism. growth, which was expected to be 3% in 2015, was revised down to 0.5% for 2016, the unemployment rate is 15% on average, 20% for women and 28.6% for young graduates of higher education. in addition, the regional security and political context is extremely volatile, due in particular to the border it shares with libya. despite all these challenges, tunisia continues to make very significant progress, anchoring the democratic transition in the country.
in writing. ‒ according to an oecd study, the aggressive tax optimisation by multinational companies reduces the budget revenues of governments worldwide by between usd 100 and 240 billion annually, about 4-10% of global revenues from taxpaying companies. to tackle this, a fair and effective corporate tax in the eu is needed. the parliament's proposal provides for the principle that companies pay their taxes where they make their profits. but above all it is also seeking a uniform approach, which i also support. a common corporate tax base would also be conceivable, allowing companies to cooperate with a single point of contact for the preparation of the tax return and the consolidation of the profit and loss account for all locations in the union.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved my report on new rules to combat tax evasion. the vote advanced five points: tax payments must take place where firms make their profits, through the precise and mandatory definition of the conditions which certify thata multinational is well established in a country; the cap on interest deductions at 20% and up to €2 million, an ambitious and more balanced position than the european commission's proposal, which prevents multinationals from artificially inflating their debt; the 'switch-over' clause, which allows the regulation of controlled foreign companies; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: an ambitious taxation of profits at the exit to reduce double non-taxation; limiting the use of patent filing, through clarification of the definition of investment in research and development. these advances are welcome, as they are part of the dynamic of restoring equality before tax.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is a political priority for the ecr. we therefore support the objectives of this council directive, i.e. the implementation of the measures from the oecd’s anti-beps framework directly affecting the single market. such measures should focus on artificial fiscal constructions that lack any commercial justification. the ecr abstained on this report. it goes beyond the oecd framework without any impact assessment. it calls for (double) taxation of foreign income that has been taxed under a rate of 15%, via the switch-over-clause and the cfc-rule. the ecr believes the goal should be to tax profits where economic activity takes place, not to introduce minimum effective taxation (met). secondly, the report calls to limit corporate deductions for interest payments to 20% or eur 2 million, and limits the period during which deductions can be made to five years. this risks hurting companies that apply for a loan for legitimate commercial use in order to make investments. lastly, the report calls for the commission to publish an ambitious ccctb proposal and for the council to conclude negotiations as soon as possible, and asks for the creation of a harmonised, common european taxpayer identification number.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption by a very large majority of the report on the crackdown on corporate tax evasion. panama papers, luxleaks, all of them only reflect part of the iceberg. it is therefore imperative that measures to combat evasion be strengthened. the european union, the world's leading economic and commercial power, has a key role to play. following the oecd recommendations, the eu must lead the way towards a global reform of tax practices that are harmful to the economy as a whole. for this we must have a common approach. as such, i am pleased that this report supports the commission's proposal, while taking the liberty of proposing common definitions such as 'permanent establishment', 'tax havens', 'minimum economic substance', 'transfer price', 'royalties costs', 'patent-friendly measures', 'letterbox companies'. the aim of this text is to call on the council to show ambition when adopting its position on this key legislation.
in writing. ‒ while the european commission is moving in the right direction with its proposal for a directive to combat tax avoidance by multinational companies, i believe that the european union can and must be ambitious. that is why i have decided to support this report on rules to combat tax evasion which proposes improvements to the commission's original proposal. the european parliament's powers in tax matters are limited, so we are only consulted on these matters. it was therefore essential to arrive at a report that was both ambitious and supported by a large majority of meps in order to send a strong signal to the council. i am therefore pleased that this report was adopted by a large majority (486/88/103) at this plenary session. the european parliament's proposed advances include a 20% cap and up to €2 million in interest deductions on loans paid by businesses. now let us hope that the council will show the same responsibility as the european parliament and adopt an ambitious directive to combat tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday 8 june, the european parliament voted in plenary on the new measures proposed by mep hugues bayet to combat tax evasion by multinationals. the vote, which was broadly supported by the political groups, once again demonstrates that the european parliament is a major player in a thoroughgoing reform of the taxation of multinational companies in europe. hugues bayet, who was an excellent rapporteur, stresses that thanks to these new measures it will finally be possible to tax multinational profits where they are generated and thus avoid that they are transferred to a tax haven. this is a major challenge, as eu member states lose between €100 and €240 billion in tax revenue each year as a result of aggressive tax optimisation by multinationals.
in writing. – i voted in favour of a motion for a council directive that is based on the bayet report. based on results by the oecd, we know that multinationals are able to avoid taxes, which annually amounts to a cost between usd 100 billion and usd 240 billion worldwide. the report introduces measures which will ensure a fairer taxation of multinationals so that these do not increase our citizen’s tax burden or disadvantage other companies including sme’s. however measures must not go beyond the oecd guidelines, as this would reduce europe’s competitive position compared to 3rd countries. i also welcome the call for a stronger role for the european parliament in ensuring that other institutions follow up on their obligations.
in writing. ‒ it is the task of every state governed by the rule of law to guarantee the principle of the presumption of innocence and protection against torture. these are the principles on which the european union and all forms of liberal democracy are based. the commission has therefore adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. that is why i support the majority resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution which reiterates the strong condemnation of the use of advanced interrogation techniques, which are prohibited by international law and constitute a violation in particular of the right not to be subjected to torture and the right to humane treatment. the resolution also stresses that transatlantic cooperation based on common values such as the promotion of freedom and security, democracy and human rights is, and must be, a top priority in the european union's external relations.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this resolution on the use of torture by the cia. following up its resolution of last year on the us senate report, parliament reiterated its strong opposition to the use of torture and called on the us to investigate and prosecute those responsible. parliament also reiterated its call for the us to cooperate fully with the eu member states. the use of torture is an intolerable violation of the most fundamental human rights and, at a time when the fight against terrorism is giving the union and the united states greater incentives than ever to intensify cooperation, this must be based on respect for international law, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted by a narrow majority (30 votes to one) on a resolution on the use of torture by the cia and the involvement of our member states in such acts. the discovery of secret cia prisons caused a great deal of stir in european public opinion when they were revealed in late 2005 by the american daily newspaper the washington post. the climate of impunity which had surrounded the cia has now ended and the european parliament continues to express its dissatisfaction with the torture methods used by the cia. the obama administration has done its best to condemn the mistakes of its officials and has made clear its full compliance with the geneva convention. but who are we to claim to have the truth? this resolution is a matter of the coué method rather than the ability to assume an inevitably security policy when the rule of law is in danger in the face of the internal threat. the resolution also sins by naivety. this is evidenced by the request made in paragraph 26 to grant asylum in the eu to all former guantánamo prisoners. that is why i abstained, as did 48 other members of the european parliament, on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i signed the majority resolution expressing the european parliament's concern at the apathy of the member states and the european institutions towards the numerous human rights violations and the use of torture that took place during the cia's 'restitution' operations on european soil between 2001 and 2006. the text adopted urges them to investigate these violations and to bring to justice those responsible or complicit. the document also calls for further fact-finding missions to be organised by parliament in member states identified as accomplices to the cia detention and interrogation programme, such as lithuania, poland, italy and the united kingdom. the resolution also regrets that more than a year after the publication of the us senate study on the restitution programme, no responsible person has yet been held to account.
in writing. ‒ n-va supported the alternative epp resolution b8-0584/2016, which strongly condemns torture on eu territory by foreign powers with respect for the principle of subsidiarity . the nva delegation in the european parliament, on the other hand, voted against libe resolution b8-0580/2016. in the past, n-va also voted against the similar libe resolution b8-0098/2015. parliament has no competence in matters of national security. it also obtains second-hand information and condemns (foreign and european) governments on the basis of sometimes dubious sources. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i share the view of the european parliament, which reiterates its strong condemnation of the use of advanced interrogation techniques, which are prohibited by international law and constitute violations, in particular of the right to liberty, the right to security, the right to humane treatment, the right not to be subjected to torture, the right to the presumption of innocence, the right to a fair trial, the right to be assisted by a lawyer and the right to equal protection before the law.
in writing. – voting in favour of this resolution, is voting for respect for human rights, transparency and democracy, which is the reason i did. as does the resolution, i would first of all like to state that eu-us relations are very important to me. however, good relations also mean that you respect agreements with one another. moreover, they are no excuses for violating human rights. as the resolution underlines, the transatlantic relationship is based on mutual respect for democracy and fundamental human rights. i also welcome the condemnation of (to give an example) torture as an interrogation technique. eu member states that are under suspicion of cooperating in such practices need to allow investigations to be conducted. in addition, i support the call upon the us to provide transparency of information and assistance during those investigations in the concerned eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this report which underlines the importance of the role of space capabilities and services in the implementation of the common security and defence policy and other eu policies such as internal security, transport, environment, climate, humanitarian aid, disaster management, etc.
in writing. security threats, in particular terrorist threats, are becoming more and more present and represent a security risk both inside and outside the union. in view of this situation, i believe it is imperative to continue the implementation of csdp while improving its effectiveness, visibility and results. i believe that the use of space capabilities is essential in the fight against terrorism, as it allows effective surveillance of terrorist training camps. i would also like to stress the importance of a comprehensive, long-term approach to space policy by the european union. it is indeed necessary for the union to integrate this strategy into the csdp programme. i stress the need for close cooperation between the european union and nato in the field of security and defence, while leaving the union with a high degree of autonomy in the spatial and military spheres, so that it can eventually have its own instruments for establishing a defence union. to achieve this, i believe that the creation of a legal framework will foster more intensive and systematic european cooperation in defence.
in writing. ‒ the european space programmes galileo and copernicus are primarily civil programmes. but in these difficult times for the european union, these programmes must also support the union's common security and defence policy. in voting in favour of the report on space capabilities for security and defence in europe, i call on the council, the vice-president and high representative and the commission to ensure that european space programmes build up civil space capabilities and services useful for european security and defence, in particular by devoting sufficient funds to research. in the interests of efficiency, i share the view that it is necessary to make a dual use of space capabilities, both civil and military. i would add that i think it is important that space policies dedicated to security and defence be steered by a specific centre for the coordination of the operational service.
in writing. - i voted for the report. space capabilities and services play an important role, inter alia, in the context of european security and defence. i am convinced that current and future space capabilities and services will provide member states and the union with an enhanced dual-use operational capability for the implementation of the common security and defence policy and other european union policies in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, environment, climate action, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian aid and transport.
in writing. – i strongly endorse this parliamentary resolution. today, space is closer to us than ever before. as a consequence, human activity in space is rapidly increasing. technological and scientific developments within this field have brought us many important innovations and will continue to do so. but, this also comes with security implications. as we become more dependent on, for example; satellites, we also become more vulnerable. for example, without the proper security, self-driving cars would become vulnerable to hackers. this resolution calls for increased investment in space technology, security of this technology, legal solutions to conflicts that might come up in the future, and an international code of conduct to prevent these. i agree that the eu’s diplomatic services and the eeas can play an important role herein. finally, i welcome the resolution’s call for eu-us cooperation as we surely will be able to accomplish more if we cooperate.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which calls on the commission to present a comprehensive, ambitious and forward-looking strategy to ensure europe's leading position in space technologies and services in global markets in the short, medium and long term, independent access to space and a level playing field for the european space industry. it is important to adopt a strategy which takes account above all of the needs of users of public, private and scientific services. in addition, there is a need for a clear, precise legislative framework adapted to scientific and technical progress.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted this afternoon in favour of the motion for a resolution on the opening of a space market, a text which aims to create a common european space industry with defined objectives. facilitating access to data provided by the copernicus and galileo programmes could provide added value. in this resolution, parliament recognises the benefit of pooling the resources and expertise of the european space agency (esa) with those of the member states. the development of services and products based on satellite technologies is also encouraged. among the main proposals of the parliament is the repeated demand to increase the share of gdp devoted to research from 2% to 3% by 2020. meps also call for the removal of barriers to the creation of a market based on the use of space data by public and private actors and awareness of the galileo and copernicus programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe it is essential that the european union has a real space strategy for the european union. galileo is an ambitious project of the european union, but its full success will depend in particular on the removal of existing obstacles to the development of the exploitation of its data, especially in the private sector. i am therefore glad that this resolution addresses this problem. it is also important that the european commission carries out a space audit of each sectoral policy of the union to determine whether changes are needed to stimulate the use of satellite data and services. this resolution is in line with an ambitious european space policy. the commission is now in the driver's seat.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that it is important for the future of our union. as we all know space is rapidly gaining in importance. it involves many different parties and stakeholders. this resolution correctly calls upon the commission to develop a coherent, common strategy for the eu. in addition, it draws attention to some technical barriers that currently exist. even so, i strongly applaud the galileo and copernicus programs, and support their further development. i believe that the success of these programmes will be even greater if we move towards a more integrated space infrastructure. with regard to market barriers, it is of the essence that these are removed as quickly as possible. after all, these developments require significant investment. in that regard more public funds should flow in this direction. horizon 2020 should play a more important role here. in addition, i agree that more should be done to include private investment. with regard to private industry, i strongly applaud this resolution’s recognition of the important role that sme’s should play in the development of our space industry. to this end we need to stimulate space industry clusters and incubators.
madam president, our resolution is what it is, i voted for it because it is essential today to express our support for a people who are suffering, but it is lukewarm, it says so little, it is softened by the fat law of our compromises: imprisonment, murder, crime, corruption, the twilight of freedoms. and then all these shortages, water, electricity, medicine, everything is missing there, cancer is exploding, people are hungry; venezuela is rich in oil and the people are hungry. it's a disgrace to the regime of president maduro. our text talks about dialogue, but the question of sanctions remains on the table, we must adjust our attitude to allow a democratic transition. that said, the observer position is not an option, it is not tenable. i would like to say one last word to the political prisoners, including antonio ledezma, the democratically elected mayor of caracas who was thrown behind bars last february: we are thinking of him, we are thinking of them and we are asking mrs mogherini to put the full weight of the commission into getting them released.
in writing. ‒ the institutional, economic and social crisis in venezuela is deeply worrying, particularly with regard to democracy and human rights, which are deteriorating. it is urgent to find a solution quickly so that social tensions can be eased and a constructive dialogue between the various parties can be restored, taking into account the will of the venezuelan people. i have approved this joint resolution which calls in particular on the venezuelan government to adopt a constructive attitude in order to overcome the critical situation in the country through a constitutional, peaceful and democratic solution based on dialogue.
the international community is gravely concerned about the dire situation in venezuela. the country is in the midst of a deep and continuing economic and humanitarian crisis. almost 60 percent of the population lives in extreme poverty. the vast majority of food and medicine is no longer available and humanitarian aid from abroad is being thwarted. the political crisis also seems to be unending. the united democratic opposition won a two-thirds majority in parliament at the end of last year. but despite the fact that president maduro has conceded defeat, he is doing everything to limit the legitimate power of the parliament. more than two thousand persons were deprived of their liberty on the basis of their political preference. we therefore urge the venezuelan government to put an end to these abuses, to respect the rule of law, to respect the legitimacy of parliament, to restore democracy and to address impunity. we also ask the hr to contribute constructively to the national reconciliation in the country. at the same time, we urge the government and parliament to implement reforms to lift the country out of the economic and social quagmire.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint resolution on venezuela. the situation there is indeed very worrying. the country is facing a serious economic and political crisis which calls for urgent reforms. it is essential that the venezuelan authorities respect the principles of separation of powers and the rule of law, on which any democracy is based. in this sense, i call for the immediate release of thousands of political prisoners and the restoration of their civil and political rights. in addition, in respect of national sovereignty, it is essential that the country accepts humanitarian aid in areas suffering from food and medicine shortages and actively combats illegal mining. venezuela must resume dialogue both internationally and with its own people, adopting a constructive and peaceful attitude.
in writing. ‒ like the majority of the parliament, i am deeply concerned about the serious deterioration of the situation with regard to democracy, human rights and the socio-economic context in venezuela, where the political and social climate is increasingly unstable. i am also concerned about the impasse in which the institutions are now found and about the recourse of the executive to the state powers to secure control of the supreme court and the national electoral council, in order to prevent the implementation of laws and initiatives adopted by the national assembly. the venezuelan government must respect the rule of law and the principle of separation of powers. i would remind you that the separation of powers and the absence of interference between equally legitimate powers is a fundamental principle applied by democratic states based on the rule of law. i only regret that potential sanctions are not mentioned.
in writing. ‒ the commission was required to define specific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties by 13 december 2013. the court of justice of the european union has rightly condemned it for not complying with this obligation. given the evidence that these substances are harmful to people and the environment and also have serious social consequences, a strong call for the commission to comply with its legal obligations is both right and important. that is why i fully support the text.
in writing. ‒ the n-va supported the resolution on hormonal disruptors. the european parliament is thus sending an unmistakable signal to the european commission: it's five past twelve, the scientific criteria for hormone-disrupting substances should really be in place now. the december 2013 deadline is two and a half years behind us. the commission also found that the exporting producers concerned had not provided any evidence that the measures were in breach of the anti-dumping measures in force. the n-va shares the concern about hormone disrupting substances and the potential risk to public health. many studies link the increase in cancers, diabetes, obesity, and infertility to exposure to hormone-disrupting substances, among other things. commissioner andriukaitis has promised to come forward with proposals on 15 june. the commission must keep its word. it owes this to its citizens. it is a matter of public health. but it's also about credibility and trust. the uncertainty has lasted long enough, both for consumers and producers.
in writing. over the past 20 years, an increasing number of hormone-related disorders have been identified in humans. there is an increasing number of conditions associated with reduced fertility, dysfunction of the genital organs or premature puberty. these abnormalities and diseases are associated with chemical substances found in a wide range of products for daily use or which have been released into the environment as a by-product of human activity. these substances are believed to have endocrine disrupting properties and thus to have a potential effect on endocrine balance, metabolism and normal functioning of the human body. the environment, public health and the economic sectors concerned all benefit from the avoidance of the use of such substances. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is properly implemented. these data should have been available by the end of 2013. at the end of 2015, the european court of justice ruled that the commission had breached the law by failing to publish the criteria. it is now up to the commission to publish the scientific criteria as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution which again raised the tone on wednesday with the european commission on the endocrine disruptors issue, asking it to adopt scientific criteria to define these substances. the vote, by a large majority, came after the european commission was accused for several years of inaction on the endocrine disruptors issue and was condemned in december 2015 for failing to provide a definition of the substances, which it was supposed to do by the end of 2013. the resolution condemns the commission's failure to meet its institutional obligations and notes its political commitment to propose scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties by the summer. it is worth noting that some sources suggest that the commission should finally present its criteria for definition on 15 june, which i welcome.
in writing. ‒ i strongly condemn the commission not only for failing to comply with its obligation to adopt delegated acts under regulation (eu) no 528/2012, but also for failing to comply with its institutional obligations under the treaties, in particular those referred to in article 266 of the tfeu. we call on the commission to fulfil its obligations under article 266 of the tfeu immediately and to adopt scientific criteria based on hazard for the determination of endocrine disrupting properties. it is time to take effective account of the health of european citizens
in writing. – i have voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu commission has not fulfilled its obligations here. these obligations are clearly laid out in article 266 tfeu. taking this into account i applaud the resolution’s call upon the eu commission to fulfil these obligations. when it comes to defining scientific criteria, the eu commission should only take objective scientific criteria into account and not economic or other ones, which it did. i herein follow the resolution and acknowledge the general courts’ judgement.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament rejects a commission decision to allow, among other things, glyphosate-tolerant gmo maize throughout the eu. in view of my particular criticism of the plant protection product glyphosate and my general opposition to gmo food because of its unknown long-term effects, i fully support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution calling on the commission to withdraw a draft implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of certain products containing genetically modified maize because it was beyond its competence.
in writing. ‒ the n-va did not support the objection to the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation and maize. the approval procedure for gmos is strict. the efsa risk assessment plays a crucial role in this. the n-va strongly believes in science-based and evidence-based policy. in addition, the european commission did not exceed its mandate in this implementing act: if the member states do not reach a qualified majority, the european commission is empowered to approve the gmo on the basis of a positive opinion from efsa. it is noted that there is no scientific consensus on glyphosate. i recognize the concerns about glyphosate and i call for a thorough discussion of this controversial substance. it remains important to distinguish between gmo technology and application. it is also clear that the (possible) use of gmos must always be part of an agricultural policy that integrates the protection of human health, the environment and biodiversity, whereby integrated pest management is essential for the sustainable use of pesticides and non-chemical alternatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution which aims to oppose the draft commission implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21, or genetically modified maize combining two or three of the events bt11, mir162, mir604 and ga21, or products consisting of or produced from such maize. the resolution recalls in particular that on 20 march 2015, the international agency for research on cancer, the specialized agency of the world health organization for cancer research, classified glyphosate as a probable human carcinogen. of course, it is important to enable our farmers to find a sustainable economic alternative, just as it is necessary to put an end to the use of this product. finally, i will continue to highlight the benefits of local farming and promoting short-term supply of fresh produce that is beneficial to our health and respects the environment.
in writing. ‒ yes, the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. yes, we call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision immediately!
in writing. – i voted against this resolution for the following reasons. efsa has delivered a clear opinion on this new gm crop, stating that it is as safe as its non-gm counterpart. it has concluded that this is the case for the gm’s impact on human health, animal health and the environment. the efsa is a trustworthy agency that enjoys my strong support. if it has concluded that it is safe, i do not see a reason for not allowing these products on our markets.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament rejects a commission decision to market a gmo nut variety throughout the eu. as i reject gmo food because of the unknown long-term consequences, i fully support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which calls on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision authorising the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation because it does not meet the health and environmental objectives of directive 2001/18/ec.
in writing. ‒ the n-va did not support the objection to the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation and maize. the approval procedure for gmos is strict. the efsa risk assessment plays a crucial role in this. the n-va strongly believes in science-based and evidence-based policy. in addition, the european commission did not exceed its mandate in this implementing act: if the member states do not reach a qualified majority, the european commission is empowered to approve the gmo on the basis of a positive opinion from efsa. it is noted that there is no scientific consensus on glyphosate. i recognize the concerns about glyphosate and i call for a thorough discussion of this controversial substance. it remains important to distinguish between gmo technology and application. it is also clear that the (possible) use of gmos must always be part of an agricultural policy that integrates the protection of human health, the environment and biodiversity, whereby integrated pest management is essential for the sustainable use of pesticides and non-chemical alternatives.
in writing. in my view, this resolution is unfounded. there is no scientific basis for the claim that genetically modified carnations can have any harmful effects on human health or the environment. the technical report of the snif, to which the resolution refers, clearly stated that the cultivation of genetically modified carnations does not harm human health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation. i support this objection mainly for health and environmental reasons. it should be borne in mind that there is still no risk assessment of carnation petals ingested by humans and animals. i think that the precautionary principle is indeed necessary. of course, the european commission is not obliged to accept this objection from the european parliament. i hope, however, that the commission will take this opinion into account, as it has done in the past.
in writing. ‒ no, the draft commission implementing decision does not meet the objectives of health and environmental protection laid down in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in that directive. we call on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision immediately.
in writing. – i voted against this resolution because it states the ‘the draft commission implementing decision does not fulfil the objective of health and environment protection provided for in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in this directive;’ by voting in favour of this resolution, i would give an instrument to block the approval of gm crops, and therefore innovation, in the future. when taking such decisions, public health is always of great concern to me. in this case, efsa has concluded that it poses no danger to individuals and that a spread of its pollen is highly unlikely. it assured us that even if such a spread were to happen, it would not pose any danger. as safety is the relevant legal criterion to be taken into account, i cannot but vote against this resolution, meaning that i support efsa’s opinion.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. we must prevent attacks from continuing to plague europe. we must prevent governments from having no choice but to close their borders as the only way of keeping criminals out of europe. we must prevent the citizens from losing all confidence. this is why we must act decisively in this matter. this requires a change of mind at member state level. yes, security is their responsibility, but information must be exchanged. not in bulk, because then it's just another matter of the police looking for a needle in a haystack. but concrete hits must be effectively shared among like-minded intelligence services. we must make the best use of existing databases such as the sis system, which allows persons and goods to be identified as being traceable. the eu's europol agency, which recently added a specialised counter-terrorism unit, should also play a central role. belgium is one of the best students in the class in this respect, but other member states are less diligent. i also welcome the various new initiatives. for example, the ecris initiative, which is currently working on a database of convicted foreigners. i can also refer to the reform of europol, which integrated the internet unit into its regular operation. the cell is working with private ict partners to identify and remove jihadist content online. we are also now paying particular attention to access to databases in the context of the establishment of the european border and coast guard. without rapid access to up-to-date and accurate information, we will always lag behind. and that's what the terrorists are happy to use. europe can indeed provide targeted added value in this area and must not let this opportunity pass.
madam president, commissioner, it is obviously a crucial issue for the future of the union: ensuring the security of our citizens within the european area while respecting fundamental freedoms. i therefore believe that it is essential that parliament should be involved in this work. we know that the commission is planning some interesting new tools, but since intelligence remains a national competence, it is first of all up to the member states to take responsibility for feeding and using the many existing european tools. and the commission must ensure that this is the case. i would remind you that after each attack the council reiterates this absolute priority, but it must not only be said, it must also be done quickly and effectively. it is well known that the focal point travellers, the essential data bank for reporting foreign fighters, is 90% fed by only five member states. five of the 28 member states! europol should also be allowed to play its coordinating role in these exchanges by providing it with the necessary means and information. as we speak, i am afraid, for example, that several member states have still not sent the national experts planned for the new european centre for the fight against terrorism. however, the interconnection of data banks and a single search interface would maximize these efforts. so you still have some work to do, commissioner, and perhaps it's time to issue ballots and identify who is endangering our security.
i have listened to you carefully, commissioner, and you say that you are very concerned. you say you'll continue to follow the case closely. i am beginning to worry, commissioner, about the commission's sense of reality, which does not seem to want to acknowledge the facts. after erdoğan first silenced the critical media, then fired the prime minister and brutally attacked his own people in kurdistan, the political opposition had to believe it too. the lifting of the immunity of 138 mps is a purely political move aimed at the kurdish democratic people's party. we must speak clearly and unambiguously to these members. they must be able to continue to tell their story for a democratic and a free and peaceful turkey. mr commissioner, i would like to say again: what did you say? we have serious concerns and we will continue to monitor the case closely. well, that's not good enough! how long are we going to let this blackmail continue? when will you and the european union make it clear to erdogan that the refugee deal does not give him carte blanche? opposition, freedom of expression, respect for human rights and minorities are integral parts of a democracy. the european union will lose credibility if you fail to protect those values.
mr president, the modernisation of trade defence instruments is part of an arsenal of measures to promote a european industrial policy. what is the point of supporting research and development, supporting investment and also deciding on social and environmental standards - which we of course support - if, at the same time, the european union does not have effective tools to protect this european industry? it is true that today, in relation to this unfair competition - you have heard it - there is a certain unanimity here in the european parliament. there are proposals from the commission which are being formulated and you in the council are procrastinating. you will take this responsibility for european industrial non-defence. therefore, mr minister, i would like to say that i would like to have the debate here about which countries are blocking; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the house. it is in this light that i urge you today to take a stronger stand against japan's plans to resume whaling. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. the commission and the council must not let the opportunity to put an end to these atrocious practices and to protect the iconic animal of the whale pass unused. the free trade agreement still under negotiation between the eu and japan offers a great opportunity for this. as early as october 2012, this parliament called for the abolition of whaling and trade in whale products to be discussed in those negotiations. i would like to know, commissioner, how the commission is bringing this issue up in these negotiations and whether this is a turning point for the commission. a clear signal from the commission will hopefully have an impact on the next iwc meeting.
author. vietnam has two faces, that of the dynamic young country enthusiastically joining the world, and that of the rigid one-party state. the communist party's control is absolute. the regime reacts paranoidly to anything that looks like critical or anti-state activity: bloggers, peaceful protesters, religious minorities. it is clear that vietnam is not inferior to big brother china. we have indeed raised these concerns before, but the human rights situation is not improving. on the contrary! priest nguyen van ly was released, but many of his comrades remain behind. i specifically mention thich quang do, monk, head of the united buddhist church of vietnam. for 30 years, he's been living under some form of detention. commissioner, we expect the european union to keep up the pressure. the free trade agreement concluded in 2015 is an important tool for this.
author. mr president, protests are continuing in vietnam following the environmental scandal which really set fire to the powder in april. our resolution, of course, denounces the brutal repression which has been organized by the authorities since then, and president obama's visit in may last year was indeed used as an alibi by the authorities to carry out further totally arbitrary arrests. every day, journalists, bloggers, human rights activists, religious leaders are arrested. vietnam, not surprisingly, is among the red lanterns in the world press freedom rankings. we continue to condemn these incessant violations and call for the release of all those who have been thrown behind bars, such as thich quang do, the leader and symbol of the vietnamese buddhist movement, who has been deprived of his freedom almost continuously for almost 34 years now. he is 88 years old, mr president, he is under house arrest in saigon, without cause, without charge, and his health has deteriorated greatly. we urge mrs mogherini to put the full weight of the council and the commission on her release and that of all the others.
in writing. ‒ documents are often only recognised by the authorities or courts of another state if their authenticity or evidentiary value has been established in a specific procedure. the authenticity of a foreign public document is confirmed by two administrative procedures, the hague apostille and the legalisation. the aim of this proposal is to exempt the authentication of a foreign public document from legalisation and apostille in order to facilitate acceptance and promote the free movement of citizens. the proposal also aims to simplify certification and translation processes and to introduce multilingualism in standard documents. this would affect 12 million citizens who work, study or live in another member state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves a draft regulation aimed at promoting the free movement of citizens by simplifying the formal acceptance of certain public documents in the union. the regulation provides for exemption from legalisation and apostille for civil status documents. facilitated acceptance measures are also provided for certified copies.
in writing. more than 12 million european citizens live for various reasons in a member state other than their home member state. many documents such as marriage, birth and other certificates have a cost to the citizen. this proposal, in accordance with free trade agreements designed to facilitate the free movement of persons by the formal acceptance of public documents, is without prejudice to the substance of these documents, which remain the responsibility of the sovereignty of the member states. this regulation is a further step towards greater european integration. by reducing administrative barriers, it will facilitate the free movement of citizens between european countries, strengthen the feeling of belonging to europe and give a little more substance to the notion of european citizenship. this simplification is achieved by exempting public documents from legalisation and apostille, which are the formalities required for crossborder public documents. one regret is that diplomas, training certificates, certificates of disability and other documents useful for businesses could not be included in the text. however, the revision clauses in the text will eventually make it possible to extend this simplification further to the benefit of citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ today, more than 14 million european citizens live in a member state other than their home member state. even if these citizens live in europe, it must be recognised that they still have to deal with complex and time-consuming administrative procedures. this is particularly the case for getting married, declaring the birth of a child or presenting a clean criminal record. that is why i welcome the vote in the european parliament today. the adoption of new european rules to facilitate the free movement of citizens will make it easier for our citizens to have authentic civil status documents recognised. it should be noted that a revision clause has been introduced as some documents such as university degrees have not been included in the scope of the legislative proposal.
in writing. ‒ the n-va supports the free movement of citizens within the eu, and confirms that to this end the free movement of public documents must be guaranteed. it therefore supports the objective of the regulation to simplify the administrative requirements for the service of public documents in another member state. unfortunately, the regulation takes an unfortunate approach. the practical application, particularly the use of multilingual forms, will not be easy and there is a real risk of abuse. it is also conceivable that this could create a breach in the language arrangements of the member states. the n-va therefore has some reservations about this legislative instrument and abstained from voting in the plenary.
in writing. - i voted for the delvaux report. the aim of this legislation is to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the formal acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. it does not concern the recognition of the content of public documents, in particular to preserve the sovereignty of the member states in matters of family law. the mobility of union citizens is a reality: some 12 million of them study, work or live in a member state of which they are not nationals. at present, while citizens and businesses in the union are exercising their right to free movement or the freedoms of the internal market, they may encounter administrative complications when they need to submit public documents to the authorities of another member state, for example as a result of cross-border mobility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the transfer to the court of justice of the european union of jurisdiction to rule at first instance on disputes between the union and its servants
in writing. this report contains some so-called technical amendments following the latest reform of the court of justice concerning the increase in the number of judges. more specifically, this increase was conditional on the abolition of the civil service tribunal, which has seven judges. as regards the reform of the court as a whole, i have already made my views known on this point. i do not think that this reform was timely. doubling the number of judges while the judicial backlog is decreasing is not only unnecessary but constitutes a major flaw of all european institutions in times of crisis. as for the end of the civil service tribunal, i regret that decision. in addition to the fact that the litigation of the public service is very specialized, one can legitimately question the fact of having appointed 2 additional judges on march 22 who will be paid full time when we know that all the cases that have not been litigated at the last session of the tfp of march 18, 2016 will be postponed to september 1, 2016!
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft regulation on the transfer to the general court of the european union of jurisdiction to rule at first instance on disputes between the union and its servants. in other words, the general court would be given jurisdiction to rule at first instance on disputes between any institution, body, office or agency, on the one hand, and their servants, on the other, for which jurisdiction is conferred on the court of justice of the european union. this transfer of jurisdiction will be accompanied by an increase of seven judges in the court of first instance as from 1 september 2016.
in writing. ‒ this regulation is the fourth to deal with the reform of the court of justice. the first regulation introduced various changes to the composition and procedures of the court of justice and the general court, and the second regulation created the function of acting judge at the civil service tribunal. the third and most controversial aspect of this reform was the increase in the number of judges on the court. the first increase project was to increase the number of judges from 28 to 40. the co-legislators, at the initiative of the council, finally decided to increase the number of judges in the court to 56, so that each member state could appoint two judges. this increase was conditional on the abolition of the civil service tribunal and the return of civil service litigation to the jurisdiction of the tribunal. this regulation therefore follows up the third regulation on the reform of the court of justice. the second stage of the increase in the number of judges, from 40 to 47, is to be accompanied by the abolition of the civil service tribunal, which has seven judges. i voted in favour of the text.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which approves a proposal for a regulation laying down the procedural rules governing the administrative tasks of the union institutions, the aim being to guarantee the right to good administration through an open, efficient and independent administration. the regulation thus lays down the detailed rules concerning the initiation of an administrative procedure, its management, the duty to conduct a rigorous and impartial investigation, the right to be heard, access to the file, etc.
in writing. ‒ administrative procedures are necessary for the smooth functioning of our society. nevertheless, it is essential for the commission to ensure overall coherence of the system as well. this request by the european parliament to the commission to present a proposal for a regulation 'in favour of an open, efficient and independent administration of the european union' is not new, since such a request was already made on 15 january 2013. i believe that such a request is not trivial, since it would make it possible to fill in the gaps in the union's legal system and thus contribute to respect for the rule of law. the commission is now in the driver's seat.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution to highlight what better administrative support should be. the union administration should adopt administrative acts within a reasonable time. slow management is bad management. any delay in the adoption of an administrative act should be justified and the party to the administrative procedure should be duly informed and given an estimate of the date foreseen for the adoption of the administrative act.
in writing. ‒ the resolution, which i approved, recalls that the european railway equipment sector, which includes the manufacture of locomotives, rolling stock and tracks, employs 400 000 people and accounts for 46% of the world market. it points out that competitors from third countries, in particular china, pursue an aggressive expansion policy and often enjoy strong political and financial support from their home countries, where, moreover, market access often presents many obstacles for european products. it therefore stresses the need for a level playing field and fair conditions for all in global competition and reciprocal market access in order to prevent the risk of job losses and safeguard european industrial know-how. it also calls for measures to ensure that europe remains at the forefront of technology and innovation in this sector.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution on the competitiveness of the european railway equipment sector. this is a major sector, which still employs 400 000 people and has a key role to play in achieving the commission's 20% industrialisation target. i have always advocated a strong european industry, one that creates jobs and growth. in this sense, i can only welcome the adoption of this resolution which makes a whole series of recommendations to improve the competitiveness of this sector. i would nevertheless like to express my disappointment at the negative vote on several amendments which i supported, calling on 'the member states to reject privatisation and to maintain and strengthen their public railway systems' and encouraging 'the member states to ensure the involvement of regional authorities, social partners and smes throughout the process of developing the railway sector'.
in writing. ‒ just over a month ago, we approved the technical pillar of the fourth railway package in this chamber by a large majority. i emphasized the importance of this regulation and two directives for the completion of the railway market for our citizens. the enhanced role of the european railway agency (era) and the revisions concerning interoperability and safety of rail transport also offer opportunities to our industry. an open european railway market will increase competition between companies active in the manufacture of rolling stock, electrification systems, signalling and telecommunications. it goes without saying that better performing companies will generate less costs, but i also look forward to the opportunities for innovation that such a large and unified market can bring. the current fragmentation, both in administrative and technical terms, is particularly difficult for many smaller firms and potential new entrants. if we want our railway companies to seize these opportunities, it is our task to ensure that the conditions for the proper functioning of this new european market are guaranteed. the report emphasises the right aspects and that is why the nva delegation voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text and the amendments advocating the defence of the public service. the european rail equipment sector, which includes locomotive, rolling stock and track manufacturing, electrification, signalling and telecommunications equipment, maintenance and spare parts services - and which includes many smes as well as large enterprises - employs 400 000 people, invests 2.7% of its annual turnover in research and development and accounts for 46% of the world market. the rail sector as a whole, including operators and infrastructure, generates more than 1 million direct jobs and 1,2 million indirect jobs in the union. i would point out that these figures clearly illustrate the importance of this sector for industrial growth, employment and innovation in europe, and its contribution to the achievement of the 20% reindustrialisation target.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution for very obvious reasons. as the document states, the rail supply industry (rsi) is not only an important part of the eu economy. it also accounts for 46% of the global rsi market. in addition, it is vital in achieving our cop21 commitments. however, in order to maintain its pole position, this market needs some thorough restructuring. currently, administrative and technical fragmentation result in serious efficiency losses. especially to sme’s, this can be problematic. they are an important part of the rsi market and need to remain so in the future. as this resolution points out, we need to defragment the railway market and look for efficiency gains through synergies and increased competitiveness. it calls for a unified eu railway market. in sum, this resolution calls for support to the rsi suppliers, in particular smes, through defragmentation of the market. this will attract private investment and finally increase our rsi’s competitiveness in the global theatre.
the european parliament has called for the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment. these are the words of british journalist tim butcher, who knows the country inside and out and describes it in his book as the broken heart of africa. i'm rereading an interview from a few years ago, in which he complains about how little attention is paid to congo and in which he describes the political elite there as predators. unfortunately, the message is still relevant. the east of the drc is once again a humanitarian battlefield today. villagers are being butchered with machetes, women are being raped, children are being kidnapped, houses are being looted. and president kabila is clearly not aware of that. he's busy securing his power. it is hardly three months since we began to denounce the political and human rights situation in the congo, but not a millimeter of progress has been made. on the contrary, the sham trial of opposition leader and presidential candidate katumbi shows that the drc is further mired in political crisis. we have a duty to use all the instruments at our disposal to avoid another bloody civil war. we must not forget that the crisis has a regional dimension and is about raw materials, about minerals. the commissioner said it. "the biggest curse of congo is its wealth", tim butcher rightly says in the same interview. it is a step forward for the eu to recognise the trade in minerals as one of the causes of the conflict. companies importing certain raw materials must now be able to prove that they are not indirectly contributing to violence. but we have to do more. the union should, inter alia, work towards the resumption of joint operations by monusco, the un mission and the congolese army to neutralise the armed militias.
mr president, we are here again for a resolution on the democratic republic of the congo and, as has been said, this is not the first and i fear it will not be the last. today we're here to talk about the beni massacres. the massacres in beni, as mr pittella said, are in addition to the millions of dead. in beni, more than 1,000 people have been massacred in the space of a year and a half, in addition to kidnappings, burned houses, rapes, threats, mass displacement of populations... this is the tragedy we are living in kivu today. so, as we have said, this region is coveted because there is gold, because there is coltan. i welcome the fact that we in this parliament have taken positions on traceability of minerals, but i must say that we have done so with a little delay. i must also say that the council has not always been very responsive to what we have asked for. clearly, today everyone agrees that our multinationals need to pay more attention to what is happening in this country. but today, the congolese authorities are also responsible for this instability. it is unacceptable because it gives rise to crimes. we therefore call for these crimes not to go unpunished, for national and international investigations to be carried out to identify those responsible and to impose sanctions on them. in a pre-electoral context, this will be difficult, as we know, and human rights crimes are increasing in the democratic republic of congo. we must therefore, as the european union, in partnership with the african union and the united nations, unite to ensure that the elections in that country can be held in peace, in transparency, in compliance with the constitution, not just because we want to respect the constitution, but simply because that will be the only guarantee for achieving stability, avoiding crises which are humanitarian crises and avoiding, of course, that the people, who are the first on the front line, suffer from this situation in the democratic republic of congo.
we've been talking about the war in the congo for so many years that we've almost forgotten how beautiful it is in times of peace. whole villages are being executed. women are being brutally slaughtered at the gates of the army posts. mothers desperately throw their children over the gates of the monusco camps before they are slaughtered. since 1996, sexual violence has been used as a tactic of war. every minute a woman is raped in the congo. we can almost speak of sexual genocide and that is despite the fact that the international community has been present for 16 years. can the congolese still rely on us, on monusco? 10,000 troops pass through and leave behind not peace but trauma. we need to think about the mandate and the impact. and we all know it: congo is in the wind. it 's been said here: the natural resources keep the fight going. president kabila cast doubt on his ambitions for a third term. only free and fair elections are part of the solution. we have to play a role. four points: we must continue to support the peace process, to take a hard look at the mandate and impact of monusco, to punish impunity and to punish the perpetrators, and above all to make democracy a reality. please give eastern congo a future again.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. experts estimate that there are at least 6 000 radicalized muslims in the 28 eu member states. it is certainly wrong to attribute the cause solely to social backwardness. the motives are very diverse, including a dislike of the west and a desire to make a difference. if such persons resort to violence and want to carry out attacks here, possibly after returning from conflict zones, then the situation becomes critical. we must fight against those who feel it necessary to impose by brute force a different model of state. and by "we", i mean all citizens of good will, including right-wing muslims. together we must fight for equality between men and women, the rights of gay couples and other enlightened values. furthermore, fighting terrorism is not just police work. the ran anti-radicalisation network, for example, can also provide added value as a european project. this network brings together frontline workers who work every day with radicalised persons or persons with a sensitive profile. watchmen, health workers and others share their experiences through that network. they have all the crucial information that can help the security services in early detection. for example, an ocmw employee may notice a suspicious home situation during a call. for example, a man who refuses to shake hands with a female employee or teachers who notice that young children are forced to observe ramadan by imams during weekend islamic lessons. these staff can then pass on the information to the police services. fighting terrorism is a matter for all of us.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. the report on energy efficiency and the report on renewable energy. while the member states agree on the objectives to be achieved, we risk creating unrest with the european parliament by setting the bar unrealistically high. first of all, it's important that we try to do it with less energy. and here there is still a lot of potential in the european union. almost half of our energy goes to heating and cooling. but all too often, this energy is lost, literally, through windows and doors. by focusing on energy efficiency first, we also ensure that citizens themselves can reap the benefits of the investments they make in the environment. as far as renewable energy is concerned, we as a parliament should not set targets which are unattainable. yes, we must be ambitious, but let us also remain realistic. the binding national renewable energy targets proposed by the rapporteur are not. it is clear that some member states will have to look beyond their own borders to achieve their renewable energy targets. and why advocate binding national targets? let us work together here, above all, as europeans.
mr. salini, the good news is actually that solar energy is now fully viable on its own. that's good, so we should just do that. i think it's good to have these reports. i think it's important to reflect, too. we have legislation, and we as a parliament must look at how we apply that legislation. so i think these are two important reports. what i want to pay special attention to today is obvious. commissioner, we met in paris, and it is important that in all the decisions we take in the future on energy efficiency, on renewable energy, non-ets - those debates are coming up very quickly - we do one thing and that is to implement the paris objectives fully. that means we have to be ambitious. the whole debate about enforceable energy efficiency standards is becoming very important. because if these standards are not enforceable and remain non-binding, then we cannot meet our obligations under the paris agreement.
in writing. with the paris climate agreement, we have all put the decarbonisation of our economies on track. energy efficiency is one of the pillars of that ambition. it makes europe more competitive, less dependent on energy imports, creates jobs and protects the environment. especially our houses and buildings can be improved. insulating and lighting efficiently creates jobs and helps us pay less for energy. so we need to encourage investment in insulation and energy efficiency massively. the public authorities should fully encourage this trend through fiscal measures, wider access to renovation loans and the deployment of energy-efficient services. but we must also make great strides in the transport sector. for example, by introducing co2 standards for lorries, we can achieve enormous savings. the us and japan have already done this to us. the eu must take the lead in this, or we will lose our lead. by being ambitious on renewable energy and energy efficiency, we can give european industry more breathing space to meet the co2 reduction targets. we're saving the most efficient companies in the eu from additional climate costs and giving them the space to fully invest in clean technology.
in writing. the development of renewable energies requires a new approach that would make them the cornerstone of the european union's energy model. our fundamental responsibility is to fight climate change, a historic task that we must do. we must also reduce our dependence on energy resources from the rest of the world if we are to structure our production model, create quality jobs and spearhead the development of the strategic technologies underpinning our energy transition. the transition to a sustainable long-term energy production model is a social priority that cannot be left to the market alone. on the contrary, we must understand that regulation and democratic participation are essential if we are to avoid serious social and environmental externalities. we must prevent energy oligopolies from dictating europe's energy future.
in writing. ‒ in order to investigate money laundering, tax evasion and tax evasion, the new committee of inquiry is needed to investigate similar breaches of eu law. i therefore voted in favour of the proposal to appoint 65 members.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of the 65 members of the committee of inquiry into the revelations of the so-called 'panama papers', in connection with tax evasion and money laundering. i will be part of this committee to continue the fight against money laundering and tax evasion
in writing. ‒ following the revelations of the so-called 'panama papers' on offshore companies and their beneficiaries, the european parliament voted this afternoon to support the formation of a committee of inquiry. the commission will be responsible for investigating allegations of infringement and maladministration in the application by the european commission or member states of european legislation on money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance. according to the international consortium for investigative journalism (icij), the initial revelations regarding the "panama papers" involve at least 12 heads of state and government around the world (six of whom are still in office) and 128 politicians or high-ranking officials. the revelations also show the involvement of large banks in the creation of offshore companies in tax havens. additional data should be published by icij at a later date to facilitate the european parliament's research on these activities. the european parliament estimates that tax evasion and avoidance costs the european union between €50 and €70 billion a year.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has appointed the 65 meps who will form the committee of inquiry into the panama papers scandal, which has revealed the extent of assets hidden abroad through company set-ups. unlike the special committee on taxation (taxe2), this will not only be made up of meps from the parliament's economic affairs committee, but also members of the legal affairs committee, for example. at its first meeting, in principle in july, the committee of inquiry will appoint its chairman and vice-chairmen. the commission intends to shed much-needed light on alleged breaches of european law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and avoidance. she'll be on the job for a year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of the members of the committee of inquiry to examine allegations of breach of eu law and maladministration in the application of eu law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud. hunting down fraudsters and cheaters must be a top priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the composition of this parliamentary committee of inquiry because i believe that further investigation is needed into the misuse of european law or even its violations in the 'panama case' to evade taxes and launder money. the european parliament must carry out a thorough investigation to ensure that this does not happen in the future.
in writing. ‒ the european neighbourhood policy (enp) will allow countries without a prospect of accession to enhance economic, political and cultural cooperation with the eu. the aim is to encourage the modernisation of their politics, economy and society. the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing such cooperation between the eu and the lebanese republic entered into force on 1 april 2006. lebanon thus makes a financial contribution to the overall eu budget, the amount of which depends on the specific programmes in which lebanon participates. the aim of the protocol is to define the financial and technical rules which will allow lebanon to participate in certain eu programmes. in order to continue to delay the enp with lebanon, i agreed to the protocol.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this protocol to the eu-lebanon framework agreement which lays down the financial and technical rules allowing lebanon to participate in certain eu programmes under the european neighbourhood policy, in particular in the field of economic, financial and technical cooperation.
in writing. i welcome the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of lebanon in union programmes. this agreement is part of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) and the gradual opening up of certain european programmes to enp countries. the protocol lays down rules for economic, financial and technical cooperation, which will enable lebanon to participate in important eu programmes and to receive european technical and financial assistance. lebanon is a country with which we must cooperate and support in more ways than one. it should be recalled that lebanon hosts more than one million refugees out of a population of approximately 6 million. i support this initiative to enable lebanon to participate in the wide range of programmes open to enp partner countries. this will strengthen and improve our international political relations with that country on issues such as economic stability and security.
in writing. ‒ this protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of lebanon in union programmes. it includes standard conditions to be applied to all partner countries concerned by the european neighbourhood policy with which such protocols are to be concluded. the objective of the protocol is to define the financial and technical rules allowing the lebanese republic to participate in certain union programmes. the horizontal framework established by the protocol lays down the principles of economic, financial and technical cooperation and authorises the republic of lebanon to receive union assistance, in particular financial assistance, under those programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the framework agreement because i believe that the eu should indeed work more closely with lebanon to help discourage further radicalisation and migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol to include the 10 member states of the 2004 enlargement in the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon. as full members of the union, it is logical that the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia should join the agreement.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the commission's 2007 legislative proposal for the conclusion of a euro-mediterranean protocol between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and lebanon, of the other part. the aim of this agreement is to take account of the accession of the 10 member states of the 2004 enlargement to the agreement between the european union and lebanon. it is necessary that these member states be an integral part of the euro-mediterranean agreement in order to facilitate administrative and customs cooperation with lebanon as much as possible. moreover, the integration of these member states into the euro-mediterranean protocol represents, in my view, an important step as it will allow the proper application of the rules on proofs of origin conferring preferential tariff treatment on eu-lebanon trade. the inclusion of these 10 member states in the agreement will therefore make it possible to harmonise the rules for the transit of goods between the union and lebanon. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal to include the new member states of 2004 in the euro-mediterranean agreement and support the conclusion of this agreement on behalf of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. the objective of the draft council decision is to conclude, on behalf of the european union and its member states, the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of the czech republic, estonia, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, hungary, malta, poland, slovenia and slovakia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic.
in writing. ‒ following the enlargement of the eu to include the ten member states, the protocol with lebanon was to include these ten member states as signatory parties; so i agreed to this, too.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol to include bulgaria and romania in the euro-mediterranean agreement between the european union and lebanon. as full members of the union, it is logical that bulgaria and romania should join the agreement.
in writing. i am in favour of the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. for coherent integration and a strong and united union, it is important to facilitate the accession of new members to the european union to the european treaties and international agreements which form the acquis communautaire. the draft does not in any way alter the substance of the euro-mediterranean agreement with lebanon. i think it is essential to allow romania and bulgaria to accede to this agreement because it is the very essence of the european union. we have already taken this decision when we signed the agreement on the accession of these two countries to the european union, and the next step is in line with this logic.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. the draft council decision seeks to ensure that the protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, is approved on behalf of the european community and its member states, in order to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the same protocol with lebanon had to mention the latest eu enlargement wave (romania and bulgaria) and this could convey my approval.
in writing. ‒ the eu and monaco have negotiated an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts to improve international cooperation on tax matters and tax integrity in international transactions. the agreement represents a significant step in the ongoing efforts to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and is therefore desirable. i agreed to the deal. it is intended to apply as from 1 january 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this european agreement with monaco, which aims to make it harder for european citizens to evade tax by hiding cash in bank accounts. under the agreement, the european union and monaco will automatically exchange information on the bank accounts of their residents as of 2017. the european union and monaco signed an agreement on 22 february 2016 to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. the information to be exchanged concerns income, such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and profits from the sale of financial assets.
in writing. tax evasion and tax havens must be a thing of the past. we must fight against the erosion of the tax base and the transfer of profits. this must be a priority if our social model is to be sustainable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the banking secrecy in third countries is eliminated. the eu's priority is to tackle the opaque systems of other european countries. after switzerland, it's monaco's turn to play. i therefore commend the european commission for its efforts to enable the signing of this agreement on the automatic exchange of information on reportable accounts. this is a major step forward in the fight against tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of signing this protocol with the principality of monaco, the european parliament once again supports tax transparency and compliance with tax obligations at international level. following on from those signed with liechtenstein, san marino and andorra, this agreement provides for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts between monaco and the member states of the union. this information shall be collected from 1 january 2017. the act aims above all to prevent tax evasion by european taxpayers and the concealment of capital in the form of income or assets on which tax has not been paid. in line with the global standard adopted by the oecd in 2014, monaco will have to ensure that the information exchanged covers not only income such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. the commission estimates that tax evasion and avoidance costs the eu up to €1 trillion a year.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament approved by 549 votes to 16, with 23 abstentions, the agreement between the european union and monaco on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which was initialled in february. the agreement provides that monaco and the member states of the union shall automatically exchange, as from 2018, information on the financial accounts of their residents, which will be collected as from 1 january 2017. under the new agreement, member states will receive the names, addresses, tax identification numbers and dates of birth of their residents with accounts in monaco, as well as certain other financial information, including the balance of these accounts. the formal signing of the agreement is expected to take place before the summer holidays (note that similar agreements with switzerland, liechtenstein, san marino and andorra have already been approved by the european parliament).
in writing. ‒ the european union and the principality of monaco have negotiated an agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, aimed at increasing tax cooperation and compliance at international level. the text of the agreement was initialled by a representative of the european commission and a representative of the government of the principality of monaco on 22 february 2016, and the formal signing is planned before the summer holidays, once the council has given its consent. the agreement marks an important step in the current efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion and reinforces the 2004 agreement which ensured that monaco applies measures equivalent to those provided for in the eu savings tax directive. the new agreement provides that the member states of the european union and monaco will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of their respective residents, as of 2018, for information collected since 1 january 2017. the aim is to deal with situations where a taxpayer seeks to conceal capital corresponding to income or assets on which tax has not been paid.
in writing. ‒ the european union and monaco have negotiated an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, aimed at improving international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement is an important step in the ongoing efforts to tackle tax fraud and tax evasion. that is why i voted in favour of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund, or egf, was set up to provide additional support for workers who are suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. trade has been severely affected by declining public and private infrastructure investment in the eu and the sharp rise in steel prices in europe. in addition, the competitiveness of european construction machinery companies has declined. as a result, 488 workers in this sector were made redundant in the hennegau region of belgium. it also affects 300 young people under 25. in order to assist the persons concerned in their reintegration into the labour market, the use of the egf would be extremely helpful. that is why i fully support belgium's proposal.
in writing. ‒ i have of course supported this eur 1 824 041 european globalisation adjustment fund intervention, which has not only helped the reintegration of workers made redundant at caterpillar and doosan, but will also support 300 neet young people from hainaut in their training and access to employment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to grant eur 1 824 041 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), out of a total of eur 3 000 000, to help 488 workers made redundant by carwall sa, caterpillar belgium sa and doosan sa in the province of hainaut and to help 300 other unemployed young people under 25 in that province who are not in employment, education or training (neet). hainaut, already facing a difficult labour market situation with an employment rate below the national average, is particularly affected by the decline in public and private investment in infrastructure in the european union and the significant increase in steel prices in europe, which inevitably leads to relocations. the aim was to help these 788 young unemployed and working people to enter or re-enter the labour market by providing them with active career guidance services, job search assistance, vocational training or retraining, help in setting up businesses and contribution to collective projects.
in writing. ‒ good news in a difficult social climate: the european parliament granted belgium eur 1 824 041 to support the reintegration into the labour market of 488 workers made redundant by several construction machinery manufacturers in the province of hainaut in wallonia. eventually, around 300 other young unemployed people are also expected to benefit from the support from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). this aid is the european contribution, up to 60%, to assist former employees of the carwall, caterpillar belgium and doosan manufacturers in their job search and, more generally, in their vocational reorientation. as with many economic redundancies, this concerns people working in a sector that is undergoing intense global competition. in this case, the decline in public and private investment in infrastructure and the significant increase in steel prices in europe have caused severe disruptions in trade, undermining the competitiveness of european construction machinery factories. this financial aid is therefore welcome for the families of these workers. the main challenge for the juncker commission is now to establish a european industrial policy capable of optimising european know-how in cutting-edge sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. it should be recalled that belgium had applied for a financial contribution from the european fund following redundancies in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector in the province of hainaut. redundancies had occurred at carwall, caterpillar belgium and doosan as a result of the disruptions in the european and world market for construction machinery in recent years (demand for products at these three companies had decreased as a result). it should be noted that in addition to the 488 workers made redundant, 300 young people under 25 from the same region who are not working should be covered by the measures and benefit from personalised services co-financed by the fund, in particular: mobilisation and guidance with a view to starting new studies or specific training, personalised upgrading of skills, etc. however, the fund regulation currently provides that such access may only be granted until 31 december 2017. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask for the regulation to be revised as part of the revision of the multiannual financial framework so that these people can continue to benefit from this access after 2017.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade. in accordance with the provisions of article 12 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 and article 15 of regulation (eu) no 1309/2013, the annual allocation of the egf may not exceed eur 150 000 000 (2011 prices). the necessary amounts shall be entered in the general budget of the european union as a provision. as regards the procedure, in accordance with point 13 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, the commission, in order to activate the egf when the application has been favourably assessed, shall submit to the budgetary authority a proposal to mobilise the egf and, at the same time, the corresponding transfer request. in the event of disagreement, a trilogue procedure is initiated.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the effects of major structural changes due to globalisation. on 4 may 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in three enterprises in hainaut. i supported this belgian question.
in writing. ‒ in the context of the new common fisheries policy, i have approved the transposition into union law of the measures of the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccst) between 2012 and 2014.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's approval of the regulation on a multiannual plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. this step will allow the transposition into european law of the measures taken at the level of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icsta) to restore bluefin tuna stocks. a few years ago, stocks had fallen so dramatically that the survival of the species was in jeopardy. it was now urgent to take the necessary measures to reverse the trend. i am pleased that these new measures are in addition to the efforts already made by the actors concerned to achieve a sustainable bluefin tuna fishery and thus ensure the sustainability of our fishing opportunities.
in writing. ‒ with the vote on the mato report this afternoon, parliament is committing itself to the conservation of bluefin tuna and to combating overfishing. today, two of the three species of bluefin tuna recorded worldwide are considered to be threatened by overfishing, i.e. the emergency situation. this report associates the union with the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icct) and its multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan for the period 2007-2022. the plan includes a gradual reduction in the total allowable catches (tacs) for bluefin tuna, new fishing criteria and measures to regulate sport and recreational fishing, while strengthening the international inspection programme adopted by iccat. the report itself provides for the transposition into european law of the measures of the recovery plan adopted between 2012 and 2014: transfer and caging operations, measures to estimate tuna quantities and the number of releases to sea.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has approved the text of the compromise between eu institutions on the multiannual programme for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. in adopting this document, parliament approved the text of the regulation which transposes into eu law various measures taken by iccat (international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas) in 2012, 2013 and 2014. the objective of the regulation is to achieve a bluefin tuna biomass corresponding to the maximum sustainable yield by 2022, with a probability of at least 60% to achieve this objective. the multiannual programme for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks started in 2007 and is to continue until 2022.
in writing. i followed the group in this vote on the conservation of bluefin tuna. while the commission proposal, on the whole, correctly transposes the relevant iccat recommendations, in some cases it goes beyond what was decided by iccat, but also beyond what is provided for in union legislation. this is the case, for example, when the individual quota for bluefin tuna is considered exhausted: the iccat recommendations and the eu regulation establishing a control regime provide that the flag member state may request and not 'order', as proposed by the commission , the vessel to proceed immediately to a port designated by it. in this respect, it should be recalled that the objective of transposing the iccat recommendations is to ensure uniform application throughout the union; it is not a question of reopening the debate on what has already been decided, often after long negotiations, where every word and every comma counts.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament calls on the european commission to take account in its bluefin tuna recovery plan of non-industrial fishing activities and the most artisanal and sustainable types of gear, such as traditional tuna traps. they specifically contribute to the recovery of tuna stocks, as they are highly selective and have a low environmental impact in marine ecosystems. the european parliament also called on the commission to be involved in future international negotiations. i agreed to that.
in writing. ‒ as i did for bluefin tuna, i approve this multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks, which takes into account the elements of the baltic sea ecosystem, environmental conditions and socio-economic impact.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's approval of the regulation on a multiannual plan for the baltic stocks of cod, herring and sprat and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the inclusion in the multiannual plans of concepts of responsible resource management such as the ecosystem-based approach, maximum sustainable yield and the precautionary principle perfectly reflects the european approach to fishing activities and i welcome this. only this approach can reverse the trend towards overfishing and thus towards the unsustainable exploitation of our fisheries resources, which seriously jeopardises the sustainability of fishing activities in all the regions of the world concerned.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament supports the practice of sound fishing in the baltic sea and the protection of cod, herring and sprat stocks. these three species are essential to the baltic sea ecosystem because of their strong biological interactions. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. unfortunately, they are being overexploited. it is therefore essential to put in place a management plan for herring and sprat stocks, as has already been the case since 2007 for cod. the walesa report voted on this afternoon by parliament is therefore in line with this logic and takes a further step by integrating all the stocks concerned into a single management plan. the latter will ensure the sustainable exploitation of stocks in accordance with the principles of maximum sustainable yield and the ecosystem approach to fisheries management.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted this compromise text negotiated with the council establishing a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea. this report was adopted by a large majority. the baltic cod recovery plan is the first multiannual plan to incorporate the provisions of the new common fisheries policy (cfp). the text of the regulation states that the objective of the plan should be to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the cfp, in particular to achieve and maintain a maximum sustainable yield (msy) for the stocks concerned (cabal, herring, sprat). the mdg should be achieved as soon as possible and by 2020 at the latest. the regulation also applies to by-catches of plaice, flounder, turbot and whiting. in addition, and i welcome this, geographical restrictions on fishing are maintained in the baltic to protect breeding and juvenile fish. finally, the plan implements the ecosystem approach to fisheries management to ensure that the negative impacts of fishing activities on the marine ecosystem are 'minimized'.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the general idea in the commission proposal that a multi-species management plan in the baltic sea is necessary. the multi-species management approach is much more effective than the one based on a single species. the plan should allow for the balanced and sustainable exploitation of these stocks and stable fishing opportunities and thus resources for fishermen. at the same time, it should ensure management based on the latest scientific advice as regards the state of the stocks concerned, the interactions between species and other aspects related to the ecosystem and fisheries.
in writing. ‒ in october 2014, the european commission published a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea. the proposal aims to establish a framework for the management of cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea, where fishing is concentrated on these three species. in recent years cod, herring and sprat accounted for more than 94% of the catches in the baltic sea. i voted for this.
in writing. ‒ with increasing mobility in an area without internal borders, international couples are no longer a rarity. international couples are defined as those who join together from citizens of two eu member states and then remain in a country of which neither is a national. these international couples often face difficulties both in their daily lives and in the division of their joint assets following a separation or the death of one of their partners. the new regulation aims to make this easier for married couples by determining the court with jurisdiction for them and the law applicable to their property rights. i also voted in favour of the new regulation because it will benefit many people living in border regions.
in writing. ‒ this is a case of enhanced cooperation between member states which are in favour of this in the area of international marriage regimes. the proposal aims to establish a complete body of rules of private international law applicable to the field of matrimonial property regimes. i approved that.
in writing. i supported this regulation on matrimonial property regimes which establishes enhanced cooperation, as it was time to have a clear legal framework for transnational situations within the european union, covering the determination of the competent court, the applicable law, the recognition and enforcement of decisions in this area. in a globalised world, the mobility of people within an area without internal borders is increasing, leading to a significant increase in unions between nationals of different member states and, more often, the acquisition of property located in the territory of several eu countries. this legislation is, as the rapporteur rightly says, in the interests of transnational couples.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this report which will put an end to parallel proceedings costing nearly €1.1 billion a year in different member states whose courts have to settle property disputes. they will apply to the 18 countries which have wished to join this enhanced cooperation (namely: belgium, bulgaria, cyprus, the czech republic, germany, greece, spain, france, croatia, italy, luxembourg, malta, the netherlands, austria, portugal, slovenia, finland and sweden). the two regulations adopted, one on matrimonial property regimes and the other on the property of registered couples, will determine which court will have jurisdiction and which law will be applicable in the event of proceedings concerning the property of international couples. they will also simplify the recognition and enforcement of a judgment given by one member state on property in another member state.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters is the second one on the subject. after the negotiations between member states failed - all agreements on family law had to be unanimous - this proposal was sent to parliament in the form of enhanced cooperation. as regards the procedural aspects of enhanced cooperation, the reader is invited to consult the specific recommendation on the subject. the proposal also has a double aspect, which concerns jurisdiction, the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property consequences of registered partnerships. this proposal for a regulation on matrimonial property regimes is clearly in the interest of the union and its international couples. the proposed regulation will put an end to many cases of confusion and legal difficulty. the current proposal, which is the second of its kind, incorporates many of the amendments previously proposed by parliament.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this council regulation. eu citizens are increasingly moving around the eu, working, living, marrying and buying property across eu members states, other than their own. this makes things complicated if these couples separate, or when one of the two partners deceases, etc. this regulation provides clarification on which court has jurisdiction in such cases. to ensure consistency and enhance simplification, this regulation enables one regime to be applicable to property that is located outside the eu. under certain conditions, it also allows for the law of third countries to apply. citizens should be allowed to choose for themselves as to which regime will apply to their property. this will also facilitate things for citizens of third countries and for eu citizens that live outside the eu. the establishment by the regulation of means to communicate basic information to international couples will only enhance this. all of this makes life easier for people, during times that are usually the hardest to people. it puts an end to legal uncertainty for many of them and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ with increasing mobility in an area without internal borders, international couples are no longer a rarity. international couples are defined as those who join together from citizens of two eu member states and then remain in a country of which they are not both nationals. these international couples often face difficulties both in their daily lives and in the division of their joint assets following a separation or the death of one of their partners. the new regulation aims to facilitate this for couples in a registered partnership by determining their jurisdiction and the law applicable to their property rights. i also voted in favour of the new regulation because it will benefit many people living in border regions.
in writing. ‒ this involves using enhanced cooperation between member states that are in favour of it to establish a comprehensive body of rules of private international law applicable to the property effects of registered partnerships as regards transnational couples. i approved that.
in writing. it was necessary to move forward in a globalised world in clarifying the matrimonial regimes for the millions of international couples/partners in the eu. to put an end as quickly as possible to this uncertainty about the law applicable to the administration of assets or to the division of assets in the event of divorce or death, we have opted for enhanced cooperation between 18 member states, including belgium. this cooperation will make it possible to adapt the union's legislation in an area which affects the very lives of citizens.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the european parliament voted in favour of a clearer legal framework for the management and sharing of property for the 16 million international couples in the eu who have entered into a marriage or registered partnership. the proposal for enhanced cooperation aims to establish clear rules in the event of divorce or separation of these european couples by putting an end to the initiation of parallel and sometimes competing procedures in several member states. this is often a process similar to a combatant's journey. in concrete terms, the improvements consist in the possibility for a couple to determine the jurisdiction with jurisdiction to help them in the management or sharing of these assets. the agreement will also determine the applicable law where the laws of several countries may potentially apply to the case. it will in particular facilitate the recognition and enforcement in one member state of a judgment in a matrimonial matters matter given in another member state.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this report which will put an end to parallel proceedings costing nearly €1.1 billion a year in different member states whose courts have to settle property disputes. they will apply to the 18 countries which have wished to join this enhanced cooperation (namely: belgium, bulgaria, cyprus, the czech republic, germany, greece, spain, france, croatia, italy, luxembourg, malta, the netherlands, austria, portugal, slovenia, finland and sweden). the two regulations adopted, one on matrimonial property regimes and the other on the property of registered couples, will determine which court will have jurisdiction and which law will be applicable in the event of proceedings concerning the property of international couples. they will also simplify the recognition and enforcement of a judgment given by one member state on property in another member state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal by my colleague, mr cavada. this proposal for a regulation on the property consequences of registered partnerships is clearly in the interest of the union and its international couples. the proposed regulation will put an end to many cases of confusion and legal difficulty. the current proposal, which is the second of its kind, incorporates many of the amendments proposed by parliament.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a council regulation on the law applicable to, and the recognition and enforcement of, decisions relating to the property consequences of registered partnerships is the second on this subject. after the negotiations between the member states had reached a deadlock as unanimity is required for agreements in the field of family law , this proposal is now being submitted to parliament in the context of closer cooperation. as regards the procedural aspects of enhanced cooperation, reference is made to the specific recommendation on this subject. so here too my approval.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this proposal for a council regulation because i believe that our system needs to evolve with modern times. as europe's internal barriers disappeared and our citizens started exploring their continent more and more, an increasing amount of people started meeting their life partners abroad. together with the council regulation on matrimonial property regimes, it aims at the simplification and flexibility of legislation and procedures, for international couples, in the case of decease, divorce, etc. as with its complementary one, this regulation clarifies what the procedure, the scope, the jurisdiction, as well as the applicable law will be in such cases. at the same time, it enables, for example, the enforceability of authentic acts. this will also enhance legal certainty and predictability. finally, i welcome the fact that many of the ep's previous recommendations in this matter have been taken into account.
in writing. ‒ in the north-eastern part of the democratic republic of congo, dozens of armed groups remain active and the security situation is deteriorating. there are numerous reports of massacres, the recruitment and use of children by armed groups, and widespread sexual and gender-based violence. however, the international community is mostly indifferent to this. the appalling conditions in this part of the congo are very regrettable and worrying. i wish, together with parliament, that the violence should cease. the uncertainty as to whether the next elections will be held at the right time is regrettable. the commission is also concerned about the widespread impunity for perpetrators of human rights violations, war crimes, crimes against humanity, sexual violence against girls and women, and those responsible for the recruitment of child soldiers. i fully agree with the parliament's demand that such criminals should be punished under national and international criminal law. the eu must ensure a continuous dialogue between the countries of the great lakes region and actively contribute to stabilisation efforts.
in writing. ‒ the massacres committed by violent militias are occurring in the east of the country, particularly in the province of north kivu. the humanitarian situation there is alarming. the joint resolution, which i supported, therefore calls for a thorough, transparent and independent investigation by the international community and recalls that there can be no impunity for those responsible for serious human rights violations, war crimes, crimes against humanity, sexual violence against women and girls and the recruitment of child soldiers.
in writing. as koffi annan said in 2003, "democracy is not just about holding elections. it requires that everyone, including the government and the ruling party, respect the rule of law. it requires viable institutions that guarantee the fundamental rights of all citizens, including minorities. it requires the constant vigilance of a vibrant civil society". however, the increasing restrictions on freedom of expression and political freedoms are further limiting the capacity of civil society, the media and the opposition to act. any restriction of democratic space and political participation is intolerable. inter-congolese dialogue must be included in the framework of the constitution. it must be in line with un resolution 2277, namely open, inclusive and democratic; this is the preferred path of the international community (african union and european union). action plans must be developed to prevent this latent crisis, in a tense pre-electoral climate, from leading to violence that threatens the stability of the country and the subregion and from turning into a security crisis.
in writing. ‒ the text of the resolution, adopted by the european parliament, aims to raise awareness among the international community and the media that between october 2014 and may 2016, more than 1,160 people were brutally murdered in beni, lubero and butembo, more than 1,470 people went missing, many homes, clinics and schools were burned and many women, men and children were victims of sexual violence. we have called on all parties to the conflict to immediately cease violence, to lay down their arms, to release all children who serve in their ranks. we also called for the swift and active resumption of cooperation between monusco and the congolese armed forces on the basis of the military cooperation agreement concluded on 28 january. the resolution calls on the congolese authorities to make the neutralization of all armed groups in the region a priority, to ensure the safety of all citizens and to restore stability. it also called for a thorough, independent and transparent investigation of the massacres by the international community and for an urgent meeting of the group of international envoys and representatives for the great lakes region on the elections in the drc.
in writing. ‒ the current situation should not prevent the holding of constitutionally-compliant elections, nor should the drc government and monusco investigate the failure of the congolese and monusco forces to protect civilians in the beni region. the international community must launch a thorough, independent and transparent investigation into the massacres. we call for the international envoys and representatives for the african great lakes region on the elections in the democratic republic of congo to meet urgently to take appropriate action in this regard, such as the mobilization of the united nations security council.
in writing. ‒ we have been talking about the war in congo for so many years that we have almost forgotten how beautiful it is in times of peace. whole villages are being executed. women are being brutally slaughtered at the gates of the army posts. mothers desperately throw their children over the gates of the monusco camps before they are slaughtered. since 1996, sexual violence has been used as a tactic of war. every minute a woman is raped in the congo. we can almost speak of sexual genocide and that is despite the fact that the international community has been present for 16 years. can the congolese still rely on us, on monusco? 10,000 troops pass through and leave behind not peace but trauma. we need to think about the mandate and the impact. and we all know it: congo is in the wind. it 's been said here: the natural resources keep the fight going. president kabila cast doubt on his ambitions for a third term. only free and fair elections are part of the solution. we have to play a role. four points: we must continue to support the peace process, to take a hard look at the mandate and impact of monusco, to punish impunity and to punish the perpetrators, and above all to make democracy a reality. please give eastern congo a future.
in writing. ‒ the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training, known as et2020, sets several common education policy objectives. after a review of the situation in each member state and by the commission, new demands were made to further strengthen education in europe. the report adopted aims to provide teachers with more extensive support. the refugee crisis has made classrooms more diverse than ever before, which also poses a challenge to teachers. competent education can only be good for integration. in addition, those who build a bridge between theory and practice will be helped by grants or loans, as more and more employers complain about the lack of practical experience of the young. i believe that the report tackles the important problems and new challenges of eu education policy, which is why i have agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this own-initiative report which highlights the significant problems of accessibility and socioeconomic discrimination in education and training. in the current migration context, the report calls in particular for measures to integrate the children of migrants, refugees and asylum seekers into education and training systems. the committee also stressed the importance of measures to facilitate the enrolment of migrant, refugee and asylumseeker students at universities. this is of course essential to promote their integration and participation in our society.
in writing. as a former teacher, i am particularly concerned about the education and training of young people. quality education ensures that young people become skilled professionals, acquiring the necessary competences and skills. but education is also a value in itself. it contributes to the development of civic and moral values. responsible teachers are key players in the development of young people into conscious and engaged european citizens. youth unemployment in europe is still far too high. i therefore support the recommendations in this report calling for effective investment in education and training. for example, the establishment of partnerships between education and the labour market in the member states can be a source of sustainable growth. acquiring the necessary skills, promoting student mobility and inclusive education are priorities in the fight against youth unemployment. the call to the member states to include in the learning objectives an increased emphasis on the development of social skills, the promotion of active citizenship and european values deserves all our support. the teaching of social and human skills is an essential and effective pedagogical tool to prevent young people from becoming radicalised.
in writing. ‒ strengthening cooperation at european level in the field of education, training and innovation is one of the priorities of the european parliament, which voted this afternoon in favour of the krasnodębski report complementing the education and training 2020 (et2020) strategic framework. et2020 aims to facilitate learning and mobility for european citizens. it also seeks to improve the quality and efficiency of school education and to promote equity, social cohesion and active citizenship. these measures should help to meet the major challenges of the coming years, such as the ageing of the population, the shortage of skilled labour and the race for innovation in a context of global competition. the objectives of et2020 in terms of education are many. the aim is to increase the proportion of children in pre-primary education to 95% and to significantly reduce the proportion of young people who are not proficient in reading, mathematics and science. in the field of training, the stated objective is to target at least 40% of persons in the 30-34 age group who have completed higher education and, more generally, those aged 18-34 to study or train abroad.
in writing. ‒ with youth unemployment at its highest in europe, it is crucial to evaluate the european et2020 framework in order to increase its added value and optimise its effectiveness. the evaluation carried out by the commission in 2014 led to the adoption by the commission and the council of a series of recommendations to address the complexity of the context and governance of et2020: definition of the mandates of the new generation of working groups, mobilisation of independent experts, closer dialogue, more regular consultation and coordination between the commission, the member states and education stakeholders. the resolution adopted today contains a number of priorities and policy recommendations, including on the governance and coordination of et2020 at all levels (e.g. the commission should open up the new working groups to representatives of the different stakeholders and the results of their work should be more widely disseminated at all levels), but also on quality education (e.g. achieving the benchmarks for education and training should not be at the expense of quality, etc.).
in writing. ‒ the intensification of intra-european mobility and the current refugee crisis have posed major challenges to national education and training systems. today's classrooms are more diverse than ever, with pupils needing extra help to adapt to new curricula, academic requirements, teaching methods and often also to new languages and cultural norms. teachers need additional support, at the beginning of their training and throughout their careers, through continuing professional development courses, so that they can effectively teach immigrant children, to facilitate their integration into the host society while encouraging them to preserve and maintain their cultural heritage. there is an urgent need for measures at national and european level, also in the framework of et2020, in the field of education and training for adult asylum seekers who have recently arrived in europe. education is the key to integration and employability, and if national systems are unable to meet this challenge, it risks exacerbating social divisions and cultural segregation and thus reinforcing the emergence of already latent parallel societies.
in writing. ‒ education and training are important to help people acquire the knowledge and vocational skills they need to become competitive and innovative workers. moreover, they can play an important role in forming open-minded people. it is to be welcomed that the paris declaration of the ministers of education of 17 march 2015 has been reflected in the joint report and that et 2020 has been updated, placing the objectives of employability and the promotion of social cohesion, equality, non-discrimination and civic skills on an equal footing. it could count on my full support.
in writing. – i strongly endorse this ep resolution, because it represents our views on the commission’s evaluation of et2020 very well. it is important to follow up on such frameworks and programmes in order to observe whether the predetermined objectives are being achieved – and, if not, what action is needed. this framework is important as the future of our workforce depends on education and training. these will be the tools that will help the eu in maintaining one of the most competitive and innovative workforces in the world. in this regard, the erasmus programme plays a significant role, which the resolution recognises. i welcome the resolution’s call for quality assurance in education at all levels and its emphasis on the importance of the quality of educators, who need to be supported through continuing professional development programmes. the resolution also stresses the importance of exchange of good practices between member states.
in writing. ‒ the development of renewable energies requires a reorientation, making them the cornerstone of the union's energy model. climate change must be fought, and we have a responsibility to do so. the dependence on energy resources from other countries must be reduced if we are to achieve the goal of taking a leading role in the development of strategic technologies for the energy transition, of structuring a successful and realistic energy production model and thus of creating quality jobs. this takes account of the demand of parliament, which i can only agree with.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this report which, while welcoming its efforts in favour of renewable energy, encourages the commission to ensure the implementation of the renewable energy directive and to propose an ambitious legislative framework after 2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources in the transport sector. it also stresses the importance for the renewable energy sector of sharing best practice, support schemes and access to capital, particularly for smes.
in writing. the eu is on track to meet its 2020 objectives. this is the result of an ambitious move by the eu and its member states towards a low-carbon economy based on more efficient energy use and the exploitation of renewable energy sources. in the context of the commitments it made at the paris climate summit, it is a logical next step for it, together with the member states, to raise its ambitions, invest more in energy technology and tighten the renewable energy directive. the cost of renewable energy has fallen sharply in recent years. this creates opportunities to launch an integrated, competitive and sustainable european energy policy. the optimal use of renewable energy sources, further technological innovation and the roll-out of smart energy networks are the main pillars of an ambitious, competitive european energy market. citizens should therefore be encouraged to participate actively in this energy market by generating, using, storing and selling their own energy. in some eu countries, biomass from wood is the most widely used renewable energy for heating. as forests are crucial to our ecosystem, responsible exploitation and sustainable use of our forests is important.
in writing. ‒ there is a strong chance that renewable energy will be the world's leading energy source by 2030. the european union, including belgium, therefore has every interest in investing in the clean energy sector, if only to reduce its energy dependence. this is what the lópez bermejo report, adopted this afternoon, emphasizes in a broad sense, listing in more detail the progress made in the renewable energy sector. some member states have already reached or are very close to reaching their 2020 targets, while others are lagging behind. but that would be to ignore the geographical and topographical features which really differ from one european territory to another. clearly, not all member states are equal in ensuring their energy transition. belgium, for example, has neither the mountain ranges of austria nor the forests of sweden to focus on the development of hydropower or biomass. however, as the european parliament resolution stresses, all member states must show common ambition, decarbonise their industries and aim for 30% renewable energy by 2030.
in writing. ‒ on the eve of the review of the european legislative framework in the autumn, the european parliament reaffirmed on thursday 23 june its high ambitions for renewable energy by 2030. the text of the adopted resolution emphasises the key role of self-production and self-consumption, decentralised production of renewable energy and collective energy management through municipalities, all areas in which the next revision of the renewable energy directive will have to encourage investment. i also voted in favour of an amendment which stresses the enormous job creation potential of the renewable energy sector and calls on the member states to ensure that labour standards are not weakened by the energy transition, which should also be based on the creation of quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ the development of renewable energies requires a new approach that would make them the cornerstone of the european union's energy model. our fundamental responsibility is to fight climate change, a historic task that we must do. we must also reduce our dependence on energy resources from the rest of the world if we are to structure our production model, create quality jobs and spearhead the development of the strategic technologies underpinning our energy transition. the transition to a sustainable long-term energy production model is a social priority that cannot be left to the market alone. on the contrary, we must understand that regulation and democratic participation are essential if we are to avoid serious social and environmental externalities. we must prevent energy oligopolies from dictating europe's energy future.
in writing. ‒ the development of renewable energy requires a new approach that makes renewable energy the central pillar of the european union's energy model. we have a fundamental responsibility to address climate change. this is a historic duty from which we cannot evade. we also need to reduce our dependence on energy sources from the rest of the world if we are to support our production model, create quality jobs and play a leading role in the development of strategic technology for the energy transition. the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a social priority that cannot be addressed by the market alone. we must assume that regulation and democratic participation are necessary to avoid serious social and environmental externalities. we must prevent the future of energy in europe from being determined by energy oligopolies. i voted for this strategy.
in writing. – it is clear that renewable energy is becoming increasingly important to our union in two different ways. first of all, we have to safeguard the environment, following up on international agreements such as cop 21, to which we are a signatory. secondly, we need to safeguard the eu’s energy independence. at eu level, as in flanders, we are currently working hard on achieving this goal. although the eu is moving in the right direction, i hope that this resolution will help to speed up the process and can provide extra support to those who are left with the responsibility to make it happen. i agree with the resolution’s point on the necessity of a stable framework for investment. i strongly believe that renewable energy has the best chance of succeeding if we cooperate at eu level.
in writing. ‒ between 1991 and 2014, greenhouse gas emissions in the eu fell by 23%. in the same period, gdp increased by 46%. this shows that as the climate impact decreases, businesses and citizens generate more growth, creating jobs and tax revenues. the eu is on track to meet its 2020 targets of reducing co2 emissions by 20%, increasing the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption to 20% and achieving 20% more energy efficiency. however, the high bureaucratic burden in the energy sector and the high energy prices for medium-sized business customers and households are a cause for concern. in addition, as there are also several national and european regulations, some of which are in conflict with each other, i join parliament in calling on the commission to work towards a more coherent climate and energy policy and to make additional efforts towards a pan-european electricity market design.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i approved, underlines that while the energy efficiency directive has brought about many positive improvements in the member states, its implementation remains insufficient, particularly in terms of quality job creation. it stressed the importance of initiating the transition to an energy system based on renewable energies, which would make it possible to phase out fossil fuels as quickly as possible. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels.
in writing. efficient use of energy is crucial to achieving our climate and energy goals. although the eu is on track to achieve its 2020 targets overall, we note that the energy efficiency directive and the buildings directive have not yet been fully implemented. however, energy efficiency is the most necessary step towards a sustainable energy market which will make us more independent of energy imports, stimulate innovation and help create new jobs. moreover, both citizens and businesses have an interest in lower energy bills. in the context of the eu's commitments at the paris climate summit, it is desirable that the eu raise its energy saving targets by proposing new and innovative solutions that reduce energy consumption on the one hand and aim at a more rational use of renewable energy on the other. for example, the building sector has a lot of room to transform itself into a more energy-efficient sector. it is therefore desirable that the commission, the eib and the member states provide technical assistance and support to housing projects implementing sophisticated insulation techniques, more modern heating systems and the use of private renewable energy sources.
in writing. ‒ on the eve of the review of the legislative framework in the autumn, the european parliament reaffirmed on thursday 23 june its high ambitions for energy efficiency by 2030. the resolution on energy efficiency stresses the need for full implementation of existing eu legislation to achieve the union's 2020 energy efficiency target (20% increase by 2020). parliament also reiterated its ambition for a 40% energy efficiency target by 2030, with binding national targets for member states to redouble their efforts. i'm so happy for you. the text also calls on the eu to invest more in information and support programmes in the member states to encourage the participation of local actors in energy efficiency programmes and to promote new solutions in refrigeration, lighting, insulation, etc.
in writing. - i voted for the text. energy efficiency is crucial to achieving our climate goals as part of the goals endorsed by cop21 in paris. it is of paramount importance to reduce our dependence on imported energy, create jobs, reduce energy poverty, improve comfort and health, and boost our economy. i would point out that the energy efficiency directive has brought about many positive improvements in the member states, but that insufficient implementation is hampering its true potential.
in writing. ‒ in the eu, greenhouse gas emissions fell by 23% between 1990 and 2014. over the same period, eu gdp increased by 46%. with less and less impact on the climate, businesses and citizens are driving more growth, creating new jobs and generating tax revenues. the european union is well on track to meet its 2020 targets of 20% reduction in co2 emissions, 20% increase in the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption and 20% increase in energy efficiency. this is largely due to the successful ets scheme. this scheme not only encourages emission reductions but also investment in energy-efficient technology. i voted in favour of this report and i am also pleased that flanders is making a comeback with its new policies.
in writing. – ensuring the future of energy in the eu requires a combination of approaches. while renewable energy plays an important role in this future, we also have to work on energy efficiency. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. it sends a positive message, stressing the progress that has been made and recognises the role of ets and the implementation of the energy efficiency directive herein. it also recognises some problems, such as the complexity of the relevant legislation. i therefore strongly welcome its call on the commission to work towards a coherent electricity market design for the eu. while the eu plays an important role as legislator, in the end it is the market itself that will be the key to the solution. as long as we ensure that energy efficiency is in the industry’s interest, the market will become more energy efficient by itself. i agree with the resolution that the correct incentive is very important in this regard.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to start by saying to the british people that it is always hard to accept a decision that you disagree with. but we have to accept it. their choice was clear and needs to be respected. at least on that, i think the more than 700 members here can agree. so it is my feeling that it is not so much the choice that they have made that is hard because – let’s say it – choice is the essence of democracy and of our democracy. what makes it so hard for me – and i think also for the other group leaders and for everybody here in this house – is the way it succeeded. the absolutely negative campaign, mr farage’s posters showing refugees like in nazi propaganda… (loud applause)i never thought it was possible that somebody in this house should do a thing like that. also the lies on migration and the lies that ‘turkey will join the union next week’ or the lies about the gbp 350 million that would return immediately to the national health service and now does not go back to the national health service. it is that climate of fear that has been created and that negative vision that has been created that is the most shocking thing about what happened in britain, not the choice of the people. because the choice of the people is democracy. (applause)and today we see the outcome of it: a multi—billion loss in stock market value and the dramatic drop of the pound – which goes down when you speak, mr farage, wait a little bit. standard & poors has downgraded the british currency and every time mr boris johnson speaks, the more the british currency slips. so the brexiteers – and they are also here in the house – and mr kamall will tell us that it is only a temporary setback, it is only a little glitch. i don’t know. i hope for us all that it is only a glitch. but what i do know is that we need, as fast possible, to end this uncertainty as soon as possible. that is needed now. the worst thing that can happen is to continue this uncertainty. only the immediate invocation of the procedure for a clean separation, as foreseen in the treaty, can end what i call the toxic climate that has been created since thursday of last week, a toxic climate that is bad for business, bad for investment, bad – mr farage – for all hardworking, ordinary, decent people. (applause) triggering article 50 is not a punishment. what are we talking about? for those who voted to leave, it is quite the opposite i should say. it is respecting their choice if we do so, but it is an act against the current bickering of the tory leadership and against the selfishness of one man, who is ready to do everything – even to sacrifice the voice of 17 million british citizens and the interest of 60 million other citizens – to become prime minister of the uk – or should i say, prime minister of the dual kingdom of england and wales. so we both – and i say it to the british representatives, our colleagues here – brits and europeans, cannot afford to be stuck in limbo. let us be honest. mr kamall said that we have to negotiate and we have to prepare ourselves. prepare ourselves? the leave camp is adrift for the moment. lost, rudderless. mr kamall is voting for a leave and his colleague from the polish delegation is asking for a new referendum in britain. is that the certainty we need? so we – the 27 other members of the european union – should not wait for a disorientated tory party to get its act together. we should now move forward with courage and with conviction, also united towards a new horizon because there is a new horizon, a new future for our old continent. to succeed in this, i can tell you – and i will say to all colleagues – we do not need a lot of imagination. you know what we need? a healthy memory. a healthy memory to return to the big and great ideas of our founding fathers. that is what we need. today it is very clear what that means, jean-claude. it means four things. we need an effective european government for the union, and for the eurozone. let us make it. we need a european border and coast guard to safeguard the free movement of our people. we need a european capacity to fight against terrorism and transnational crime and we need – i also think – as fast as possible a defence community, as the americans are no longer prepared to pay for the free riders we became such a long time ago. so we need one thing. not to start informal negotiations preparing ourselves. we need to show the people of europe that we are capable of building a new and better europe, a union that can really address the many crises that it faces. in short – and i conclude – let us do for once a thing that is un-european, an exceptional thing. let us use, for once, this opportunity, the power of this house, the cradle of european democracy, to put europe back on track and let us not wait to do it. (applause)
for the greens/efa group ladies and gentlemen, there are times when political time is suspended and we have the opportunity to make a choice. in the aftermath of world war ii, the nations of europe faced a choice. they had the choice of either pursuing or breaking with the principle of indivisible national sovereignty. by deciding to share sovereignty, they ushered in a period of peace and prosperity unprecedented in european history. today, the outcome of the british referendum may bring a historic breakthrough to the project of political integration of our continent. but should that be surprising? from denmark to ireland, france, the netherlands and greece, there have been warning signs of the growing distrust of our fellow citizens towards the process of european integration. it is therefore high time that we responded to it. once again we have a choice, and the survival of the european union depends on that choice. we have three options. the first is the one that was voiced last week in the united kingdom, the one of a nationalist and - let us say - xenophobic retreat, preached by mrs le pen, mr farage, mr wilders, mr orbán, and so many others. (applause) i would like to thank to those who support this option, i say this: you are right, it is about democratic sovereignty, it is therefore about the ability of our democracies to make freely the choices that determine their future. but you're lying! you are lying, because who can believe that even the most powerful member state of the european union can successfully confront alone the exorbitant powers of multinational companies, climate change, tax evasion, organised crime and terrorism or the reception of refugees and migrants. i tell you, no wall, no wall will be high enough, nor thick enough, to insulate europe from the challenges of the 21st century. there is only shared sovereignty today. the second option that we have, mr juncker, is the one advocated today by the majority of european governments and relayed by the commission. this option consists in curbing the ability of states to carry out their public service mission by means of economically absurd budgetary and accounting rules and by putting their social and tax systems into competition, in unleashing market forces - as you like to say - by deregulating everything, in particular, mr timmermans, in social and environmental matters, by being morbidly obstinate - mrs malmström - in concluding so-called trade treaties whose main purpose is to lock up our democracies, in preferring too often opacity - and i turn to the council - in transparency in decision-making, so as to avoid having to pay the political price of your decisions. this is the policy that has been imposed on europe for the last 25 years. so why, mr juncker, why did you choose to be the continuation of it? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and whether he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. no, bringing back growth does not automatically bring back employment and reduce inequality. and, no, making the rich richer is not good for society. these political choices are the main cause of the rise in euroscepticism, as they lead to the abandonment of an increasing number of our fellow citizens. we want to be part of a third option, which is at the same time resolutely pro-european - there is no doubt about that - but which breaks with this single thought. we want the european union to return to the roots of its project, which was to secure peace on this continent through the extension of democratic freedoms on the one hand and through sustainable and shared prosperity on the other. i ask you, i ask ourselves: is it impossible to ensure the viability of the euro through a real social and fiscal union? is it not possible to make the energy transition the flagship project of our economic recovery? is it possible to ban the poisons that are killing our environment and our organisms slowly? is it possible to abandon free trade agreements which benefit only the happy few? is it not possible for europe to become once again a land of welcome for those fleeing war, persecution and poverty? is it impossible to keep our societies within the limits of our planet? is it possible to revive our democracies through more transparency and citizen participation? in short, is it not possible to put human dignity, the dignity of all human beings, here and there, now and in the future, back at the heart of politics? our answer is that yes, all of this is possible, if you want it to be. and if the european union can be the instrument of this political will, it will regain the confidence of our citizens. but make no mistake, we are running out of time. if we ignore the signal sent by the british referendum, if we misinterpret it, then the european project will be finished. ladies and gentlemen, europe has experienced enough of the worst to not only hope for the best, but to build on it. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i will be very brief. at the end of this debate i want to make an appeal to the members present here to now send a strong message to the european council and to european citizens, and the best way we can do that is to vote massively in favour of the resolution we have prepared for the session and not to start saying that we do not like this or that. what is now politically important is a massive vote in favour of that resolution. my last thing will be to say to mr farage to say that i am shocked. mr farage, you are presenting yourself here as a defender of the little man and the hard worker while you have an offshore financial construction. i do not think that all citizens in britain have offshore financial constructions. but, okay, let us be positive. finally we are going us to get rid of the biggest waste in the union’s budget that we have paid for 17 years. your salary. (laughter and applause)
in writing. i will support the joint resolution on the decision to leave the european union following the result of the uk referendum, because the people have made their choice democratically and we must respect it. however, in the interests of the integrity of the union, we call for the swift opening of the withdrawal procedure, as provided for in article 50 of the eu treaty. the uk authorities must take responsibility and the institutions must negotiate a new relationship with the uk in the interests of the union. brexit must be transformed into an opportunity to reform the european project to refocus it on the concerns of citizens. it is necessary to strengthen and improve the functioning of the union to make it intelligible and relevant to citizens. the european union must emerge victorious from this ordeal, otherwise it risks triggering the brexit-friendly british breakthrough. we must move towards a more federal europe with a greater role for the european parliament. we need a genuine policy of recovery, but also and above all a social policy which reconciles the citizen with the european project.
in writing. the british have finally said no to europe. it's a failure, of course, but it can become an opportunity. a failure, because the european project as it is no longer convinces the masses; it is also a failure for david cameron, who, in his quest for re-election, opened a pandora's box that he was never able to close. but it is also an opportunity to start the work again on the right footing, by profoundly reforming the european rules of operation and the european institutions, with the member states really motivated by the project, and by avoiding proposing a europe à la carte: a europe that works and responds more effectively to the expectations of the citizens. this will be a profound challenge! finally, after hearing their speeches, if nigel farage and marine le pen ever make it into the history books, it will be next to the definition of the word "populism".
in writing. ‒ we regret but respect the result of the referendum. the result is a loss for all, and it is forcing both the uk and the european union to reflect. we need to get clarity from britain quickly on how to proceed. citizens, businesses and all those concerned on both sides of the channel have a right to security and a clear perspective. europe must now get down to business. the eu-27 must not allow itself to be paralysed. more than ever, we must continue to listen to the citizen, explain why certain problems are best solved at european level and achieve tangible results. we call for a stronger europe, taking concrete steps forward with existing powers and - if necessary with a core group of countries - tackling terrorism in a coordinated way, securing external borders, building a socially just europe and stimulating economic growth with extra breathing space for investment. this is crucial because it creates jobs, growth and hope for the future. europe must show its citizens that their security and prosperity are indeed in good hands, so that people can feel at home in the eu again. that is the best antidote to the lies and the politics of destruction of the eurosceptics and the opponents.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint resolution on the decision to leave the european union following the result of the uk referendum, because the people have made their choice democratically and we must respect it. however, in the interests of the integrity of the union, we call for the swift opening of the withdrawal procedure, as provided for in article 50 of the eu treaty. the uk authorities must take responsibility and the institutions must negotiate a new relationship with the uk in the interests of the union. brexit must be transformed into an opportunity to reform the european project to refocus it on the concerns of citizens. it is necessary to strengthen and improve the functioning of the union to make it intelligible and relevant to citizens. the european union must emerge victorious from this ordeal, otherwise it risks triggering the brexit-friendly british breakthrough. we must move towards a more federal europe with a greater role for the european parliament. we need a genuine policy of recovery, but also and above all a social policy which reconciles the citizen with the european project.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. the british have finally said no to europe. it's a failure, of course, but it can become an opportunity. a failure, because the european project as it stands no longer convinces the masses, a failure also for david cameron who, in order to get re-elected, opened a pandora's box which he never managed to close. but it is also an opportunity to start the work again on the right footing by profoundly reforming the european rules of operation and the european institutions, with the member states really motivated by the project, and by avoiding proposing a europe à la carte: a europe that works and responds more effectively to the expectations of the citizens. this will be a profound challenge!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution tabled jointly by the liberal, socialist, christian democratic and green groups. we ask that the negotiations on the united kingdom's withdrawal be led by the european commission and not by the council. the european parliament calls on the uk to submit the article 50 withdrawal request as soon as possible, in order to demonstrate that it is responding to the demands of the british people. the european union also needs to be adapted: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want to make a proposal because i think it is a little bit too easy to say that, as a result of brexit, we cannot start to talk about poland. that would mean we might as well go home because we can no longer talk about anything. it is necessary to talk about poland, but at the right moment. the commission’s procedure is under way, they are in the middle of it, and my proposal – as i have said to my socialist colleagues and our colleagues in the greens and the gue/ngl group – is to decide today to have this question on the september agenda. then the commission will have finished their job and, with the main parliamentary groups, we will be ready with our resolution. so let us decide now that this will be on the agenda in september. and then i am pretty sure that we will do nothing in a hurry and that our voice will be heard in poland.
the current asylum crisis calls for a vision for the integration of refugees. unfortunately, the report favours an approach which is not sufficiently balanced. first of all, let me stress that integration must be a story of rights and duties. governments must invest heavily in the integration of refugees, so it is only natural that they expect commitment in return. only when both parties take responsibility can integration succeed. secondly, and this is my second point, i am in favour of the principle that social rights must be built up. we must have the courage to think about this if we are to ensure the sustainability of our social security. we could, with a little good faith, bring down social protection in europe. thirdly, i do not believe that asylum can be a solution to the ageing of europe. asylum cannot solve the structural internal economic deficiencies and legal migration cannot solve the asylum crisis. i am therefore not in favour of a revision of the blue card directive which mixes asylum and migration. asylum and migration are two completely different issues that need to be dealt with separately. finally, i would like to point out that a flexible labour market can help to facilitate the rapid integration of refugees.
madam president, what i hear here makes me change what i was going to say a little. i come from a country, from a region, where there is a coal mine which has suffered the greatest disaster, the cazier's wood: 262 dead, mostly italians, but there were workers from a little bit of all countries, including people from the maghreb. they spoke different languages, they had different religions, but they were part of the same community, of one community of human beings. i think that in this kind of debate we must remember this and i think that the report before us today is an important report, of a high quality, which puts essential questions at the centre of the debate. we cannot accept that this debate is polluted by ideas of the rejection of the other, ideas - we must call them by their proper name - which are racist ideas. i am therefore pleased to see a report which stresses the need to integrate refugees. the sooner and better they are integrated into the labour market, the sooner they contribute to our society, the sooner they add value to it, the sooner they are integrated and the better they are welcomed. there can be no two kinds of workers, no two kinds of employees, they must be equal. i therefore call on all of you to support the very interesting elements in this report which show that the european union can be a place of humanity.
on behalf of the alde group the reform of this energy label must serve several purposes for me. first, it should encourage the manufacturer to innovate and bring more energy-efficient appliances to the market. secondly, we want better and more efficient market control. this can be achieved by improving cooperation and information exchange between the member states' control agencies. finally, it should also encourage consumers to buy more energy-efficient appliances. this will reduce consumption and lower the energy bill. i also think it is essential that we pursue these objectives in a way that is as simple as possible for the consumer, the producer and the seller. we must take account of our small, local dealers and our smes. we must not impose unnecessary costs or burdens on them. i think that with the outcome of the itre vote we have found a very good compromise between the positions of the various groups and between the interests of the various stakeholders involved. i think we've taken an ambitious approach. one that makes it clear to everyone what can and can't be done. we are still in the aftermath of the volkswagen scandal and that is why it is more important than ever that we ensure that consumers regain confidence in the labels they see. and i want to be very clear about that. a refrigerator that consumes too much electricity is as bad for me as a car that consumes too much diesel. in both cases, you are being misled as a consumer, it is bad for the environment and you will also feel it in your wallet, at the petrol station or on your energy bill. i look forward to negotiations with the member states and will defend this ambitious approach with them as well.
i do not know, mr president, dear mr mark, whether it is so pleasant to be praised by those who are leaving us. i don't think that's very funny. but i would like to thank you, the dutch presidency, mr koenders, and also jeanine hennis. coming home was natural for her, so it wasn't such a hard job. but i want to thank you for those six difficult months for the union. it was a rough sea, but we all know that the netherlands is a seafaring nation, so who better to do this than the dutch presidency? i shall not today, at least in this debate, be discussing the question 'which europe do we want to see?' i know only one thing, namely that the greatest success that the netherlands has known was the golden age in the seventeenth century. that was the republic of the united netherlands, a federation of the seven provinces, which could not resist the spanish armada, but when it put all the warships and merchant fleets under one command and was able not only on the football field but also at sea to defeat the spanish armada. so having said that, i think dutch history has a lot of interesting lessons for us today. i would like to thank you for the various points that the dutch presidency has managed to achieve: the european parliament has already adopted a number of resolutions on the fight against terrorism, the fourth railway package, money market legislation, legislation against tax evasion and, perhaps most importantly, the european parliament's resolution on the fight against terrorism. the new calendar for completing the single market. because let's face it: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the single market is not a single market. finally, i would like to wish the prime minister that he will continue to defend europe in dutch politics tomorrow and that he will not leave it to the populists and nationalists. because if it were up to geert wilders, even spinoza would be banned from entering the netherlands.
i am not impressed at all. i would even say: i'm extremely disappointed. and i will give three examples of the failures of the dutch presidency. first of all: the fight against tax evasion. i have heard jeroen dijsselbloem, the dutch minister of finance and president of the eurogroup, say on several occasions: we were part of the problem, now we want to be part of the solution. what's the result? a minimalist agreement that still gives member states enormous opportunities to compete with each other in the battle over which is the best tax haven for companies in europe. second example: the referendum on ukraine. this agreement is an important part of the european neighbourhood policy. we have the netherlands, which holds the presidency of the european union. where's the prime minister? - at the head of the campaign? no, not at all! on the sidelines, make sure he doesn't lose too many points. - to whom? wilders and others, i suspect. third point: the refugee crisis. the netherlands has a tradition, a centuries-old tradition of welcoming refugees. so i had expected your country to lead a coalition of volunteers who would stand alongside chancellor merkel to ensure that europe welcomes its fair share of refugees. what did we see? the netherlands on the sidelines. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. but is this a surprise? i heard you say, mr rutte, before the end of your presidency: i have three priorities: the netherlands, the netherlands, the netherlands. you said: building support takes time, but with leadership like yours, i worry about the future of europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i always find it a little difficult that mr kamall gives lessons to us. mr kamall, you are leaving the union and you are explaining here what to do in the future: it is incredible. would it not be better if you knew what to do in britain? in my opinion, the brexiteers have no clue about what needs to be done for the moment. it would be better to give lessons in london and not here in strasbourg. in fact, the brexiteers remind me of rats fleeing a sinking ship. cameron resigned, johnson abandoned ship and farage apparently wants more time for himself and his family to spend his european salary. so the leave man remains – or has disappeared for the moment. i think that the last man standing in britain will probably be a woman. that will happen and, like in the time of margaret thatcher, only a woman will be capable of managing a divided tory party, as we see it today. yes, women will rescue britain. my second surprise last week, mr tusk, was the reaction of the european council to this political earthquake – because what happened in britain is an earthquake. the only reaction i have heard from the council was that we should not change anything and that it is just a question of implementing the existing european policies. i find this shocking and i also find it irresponsible. i do not think that you understand what is happening. it is not only a brexit referendum. before that there was a referendum in denmark: negative. there was a referendum on the ukraine agreement in the netherlands: negative. now we have had this referendum in the uk. what are you waiting for? for the next referendum in france? the next referendum in italy maybe? when will the council recognise that you can no longer defend the european union of today and that europe needs to be reformed? in my opinion, a new project and a new vision should be presented to the citizens of europe because the truth is that european citizens are not against europe, they are against this europe. the proof of that is the eurobarometer. i wonder why the commission and parliament did not published this eurobarometer much earlier because it dates from a few weeks ago, in april. do you know what the results are? eighty-two per cent of people want more european action on the fight against terrorism; 77% of european citizens want more european action in the fight against unemployment; 75% of european citizens ask for more european action in the fight against tax fraud; and 74% are asking for more european action on the issue of migration. on 14 of the 15 questions put to european citizens in this eurobarometer a few weeks ago, people are asking for more european action, not less. the problem is that europe has become ... what? europe – our europe – has become an expert on legislation on the exact measurements and colour of our cigarette packets. we have become an expert in deciding the amount of water flushing in toilets and also in the level of subsidies that a local football club can receive from local government. but what the citizens want – and that is what the european eurobarometer tells us – is a european border and coast guard, a european asylum and migration policy to tackle the migration crisis, european intelligence capacity to tackle terrorism, a european government to defend the euro and a european army to defend our borders and to end conflicts in our neighbourhood. that is what the citizens are asking for here. the inconvenient truth is that more of the same will not get us out of this crisis, dear colleagues. that is burying our heads in the sand. people want you to work on another europe, a europe that delivers results. by not doing that, you are sleepwalking towards disaster, towards 27 other referendums in the near future. so let us not be naive. the real problem today – and mr pittella is right when he mentions schäuble – is intergovernmentalism. a loose configuration of nation states based on unanimity cannot work. that is the reality today that you have not recognised until now. i will conclude by saying that we are going to do our homework. parliament will be ready in october with a global plan based on three reports on the way forward. we are not going to talk –you can be sure – about federalism, integration, deepening, widening, coordination, implementation and all these other buzzwords that are at the centre of our discussions. we are simply going to go back to the ideas of our founding fathers. that is what we have to do. that is the challenge. now or never. either the union will change, mr tusk, or it will die. that is what is at stake. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i was absolutely not pointing the finger at the people, the citizens of britain. it is their right to decide what they have decided. i was pointing the finger at your leaders in britain: at mr farage, mr johnson and mr gove, who today are leaving the political scene and yet have no clue what has to happen in the future, leaving the country with the markets in turmoil. that is my criticism: the citizens are right, but your political leaders are not.
"blue card" question. what is it? i am ashamed of you, mr de graaff, that you dare to say: i want to tear this europe down. in the long run , you 'll be doing the same thing as mr. farage: when it's time, you will leave the sinking ship! how do you think we can meet the challenges as a country alone, the asylum and migration crisis, defence? the eurobarometer report is quite clear: our citizens want a better, a different europe! i'd like your opinion.
for the first time in its history, the european union will become smaller the british have voted. the result was clear: they want out. i 'll go even further . i also understand why they want to leave. this european union has become a symbol of crisis. we had the euro crisis. we had the security crisis. we have the asylum crisis. the british referendum was therefore a wake-up call. i only note that many on the european continent are still asleep. we have just heard mr verhofstadt, for example. the referendum may have been an alarm clock for him, an alarm clock for a moment, but in the meantime he has long since hit the snooze button. and he is already dreaming again of his european taxes, his european government, his european transfers, his european superstate. the euro-federalists have still not understood. this debate should be about tackling migration, about more security. it has to be about identity, about working together with respect for sovereignty, and those are the ideas that we have to debate here. these are the ideas and the common sense that mr tusk is supposed to bring to the european table.
in writing. ‒ for a country to be included in the list of third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement in the eu, it must meet specific criteria, which are then reviewed by the council. the commission has therefore concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee established by article 15 (1) of regulation (eu) no 182/2011. it has since been applied provisionally pending parliament's approval. the exemption is valid for a period of 180 days, for a maximum of 90 days and for all categories of persons. peru is one of the few countries in latin america which still requires a visa for entry into the schengen area. this is due to the country's history of internal conflict and, in particular, high levels of violence, drug production and trafficking. although peru is still facing some problems, other neighbouring countries, where this problem is not excluded, are already exempt from the visa requirement. since the economic and general situation in peru has improved considerably in recent years and since it would be inconsistent to exclude peru as one of the few latin american countries from the visa exemption, i have agreed to this.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period for peru, a democratically stable state. this will in particular help to strengthen economic and cultural exchanges, but also to foster political dialogue on human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver. the text gives a positive opinion on this agreement which will allow peruvians to travel to the eu and european citizens to travel to peru without the need to apply for a visa for any stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the exemption applies to all citizens holding a valid ordinary, diplomatic, service, official or special passport, travelling for any legitimate purpose other than for gainful employment. for peruvian citizens, each member state individually may decide to impose or lift the visa requirement for peruvian citizens and peru may choose to do the same for citizens of each member state. peru was until now one of the few countries in latin america still subject to the visa requirement. i hope that this visa waiver will deepen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue, including on human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. i am pleased that peru is now one of the third countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for travel within the schengen area. following the positive assessment of the situation in peru, the agreement between the union and the republic was signed on 14 march 2016. the agreement represents a further step towards increased cooperation between the two sides in areas such as trade, investment and tourism. i am also pleased that, as a result of this enhanced cooperation, the union and peru can become partners in the fight against organised crime, in particular trafficking in human beings. more generally, i welcome the strengthening of the coherence of our policy towards the south american continent, since, thanks to this agreement, peru has joined the minority of countries on the continent whose nationals are not exempt from visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report giving the european parliament's consent to the conclusion of the eu-peru agreement on the short-stay visa waiver signed on 14 march 2016. this agreement provides for a visa-free regime for citizens of the union and peruvian nationals in the territory of the other contracting party. the maximum duration of the stay is 90 days over the entire 180-day period. i voted in favour of this visa waiver in particular because peru is a relatively stable democracy which, like the european union, upholds the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. - i voted for the deal. the agreement signed provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and peruvian nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa exemption applies to all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official or special passports) travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the aim of this agreement is to boost tourism and to contribute to closer relations in the field of trade and investment. peru is one of the countries in latin america that has experienced the strongest growth (5% in 2013, 2.4% in 2014). the country has grown by more than 80% over the last ten years, placing it among the ten countries in the world which have experienced the strongest growth during that period. in trade, the eu is peru's third largest trading partner in terms of imports (mainly machinery and transport equipment) and its first export destination (agricultural and food products and minerals). in addition, the eu remains the largest investor in peru, accounting for over 50% of total foreign direct investment in sectors such as mining, banking and finance.
in writing. ‒ non-road mobile machinery covers a wide variety of combustion engines installed in machinery ranging from small portable equipment to motor trains, locomotives and inland waterway vessels, construction machinery and generators. these engines are a major source of air pollution and account for about 15% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions in the european union. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to protect human health and the environment and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market as regards engines installed in non-road mobile machinery. it also intends to address compliance and competitiveness aspects. in line with the union's air quality policy, the aim is to gradually reduce emissions from new engines placed on the market and thus to replace older, more polluting engines over time. this initiative should result in a very significant overall reduction in emissions, although the reduction per engine category will vary according to the level of specific requirements currently in force.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation supported the agreement reached between parliament and the council on emission limit values for 'non-road mobile machinery'. emissions from engines of such machinery (such as inland waterway vessels, locomotives and construction machinery) account for 15% of nox emissions and 5% of particulate matter emissions. if action is not taken now, emissions are likely to increase in the coming years. the agreement puts forward stricter emission standards and thereby contributes to improving air quality and protecting human health and the environment. the agreement also provides for legal certainty and a reduction in administrative burdens by bringing european standards into line with international standards (such as those of the usa and japan). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this would enhance the green edge of the sector and stimulate innovation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. in this context, it is important to resolve the existing discrepancy between the engines recognised by the central commission for the navigation of the rhine (ccr) and the new eu standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to update the type-approval rules and emission limits for engines for non-road machinery (including lawnmowers, bulldozers, diesel locomotives and certain boats). the emissions from these non-road vehicles are far from insignificant. they account for 15% of total nitrogen dioxide (nox) emissions and 5% of fine particulate matter emissions in the eu. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. i am pleased to note that a new control system is planned, which should bridge the gap between the values observed in laboratory tests and those observed in reality. i am also pleased with the revising clause which should allow for the revision of emission thresholds and stimulate innovation to continuously improve emissions.
in writing. the air quality in our european cities and agglomerations is not yet up to the standards we want. too high a concentration of fine particulate matter and too high an emission of nox are damaging the air quality. the vw debacle of last year has shown that there is only one remedy to put the house back in order: only clear rules, respect for the law and proper controls can restore consumer confidence and guarantee better air quality. after setting new standards for combustion plants and industrial emissions earlier this year, parliament has now also adopted a new framework for emissions from non-road mobile machinery such as generators or yard vehicles. 15% of all nox emissions in europe come from these engines. a significant reduction in emissions will yield environmental and health dividends. a transitional period was introduced for manufacturers and users to allow them to adjust to the new rules. in this case, the commission has already learned one important lesson from the vw debacle: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union.
in writing. ‒ lawnmowers, bulldozers, tractors, diesel locomotives, inland waterway vessels and other non-road motor vehicles are vehicles which have a significant impact on air pollution. it was therefore important that the european union adopt legislation to severely limit the pollutant emissions from these machines for environmental reasons as well as for public health reasons. i can therefore only welcome the adoption by a very large majority of the interinstitutional agreement on this new regulation. once the council has approved the agreement, industry will have to adapt rapidly to the new regulation. this is excellent news for the health of our european citizens and for the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on emission limitation and type-approval requirements for internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report out of concern for clean air for future generations. the purpose of this regulation is to harmonise the rules for eu type-approval of engines of non-road-type machinery. the european union is based on the continuous review of air quality policy. to this end, new emission limit values should be established, which should also apply to, inter alia, agricultural machinery. this regulation also aims to simplify the current regulatory framework and administrative procedures and to improve the general conditions for enforcement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i deem it necessary. we have been working for a long time on the creation of frameworks that aim to reduce emissions. the most well-known ones are those that apply to cars. however, they are not the only polluters. for non-road mobile machinery (nrmm) we also need to strive towards emission reductions. before this regulation, nrmm was regulated by a number of directives. i welcome the commission proposal because this regulation aims to improve our environment and the health of our citizens, while at the same time enhancing the functioning of our internal market with regard to nrmm by ensuring a level playing field and remedying unfair competition.
in writing. ‒ vocational integration also promotes social inclusion. this is precisely why it is necessary to give refugees and asylum seekers the opportunity to participate actively in the labour market. it is important not to create a special labour market specifically for refugees. the promotion of languages is also important, because language is one of the biggest obstacles to the ability of these people to work. education is another important issue. most children and young people from crisis areas have had limited or no access to school for a long time. it is important to support them at the beginning of their arrival and to give them the opportunity to be educated. the report addresses important issues of social inclusion and integration into the labour market, which is why i have agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for measures to ensure that refugees and asylum seekers have access to housing, healthcare, education, social protection and the labour market in order to restore their dignity and promote their integration. meps stress that the labour market conditions in host countries are one of the key factors in the successful and sustainable integration of refugees. in this respect, the report stresses the importance of full and rapid integration into the labour market in accordance with the principle of equal treatment and of rapid, easy and equal access to training. to this end, it called on the european commission to consider a targeted revision of the reception conditions directive in order to ensure that persons applying for international protection have access to the labour market as soon as possible and at the latest 6 months after the submission of their application.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the employment committee's report on refugees concerning their social inclusion and integration into the labour market. the text stresses the need to provide refugees and asylum seekers with effective access to housing, healthcare, education, social protection and the labour market. access to the labour market will enable them to become economically independent and contribute to the society that welcomes them. this will not only reduce the burden on public budgets but also help to restore their dignity and self-esteem. it is therefore crucial to assess their skills in a timely and fair manner, and to recognise and validate their qualifications, so that they can get to work as quickly as possible. the resolution also insists that assistance to refugees and asylum seekers should not be financed from resources earmarked for programmes targeting other disadvantaged groups and that additional investment should be made. it also opposes the idea of creating labour markets specifically for refugees and supports the application of the respective national minimum wages to them.
in writing. the social and professional inclusion of refugees is a fundamental right that every citizen must enjoy, but also a necessity if the european union is to improve the competitiveness of its market in the long term. to ensure that the dignity of these refugees is respected, it is essential to move from dependence on aid to independence. the integration of refugees into the labour market is a duty of humanity. it is also a considerable asset for the union in terms of diversification of skills, knowledge and qualifications. in order to ensure that the process of social and occupational inclusion takes place under the best possible conditions, it is important to promote initiatives such as language learning that will allow refugees to integrate quickly into our society. equal opportunities integration should therefore be promoted to provide refugees with easy access to healthcare, social protection, the labour market and education. finally, a revision of the european blue card will provide them with better protection against all forms of discrimination in employment. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr benifiei, for making this report a plea for the fair and equal integration of refugees.
in writing. ‒ if women and men leave their country and family, it is not for pleasure. it's because they're running away from the dramatic situations they're in. we must show solidarity and ensure their protection. it is our duty to make this integration a success, especially in the labour market. it is a matter of respect for international rights, a matter of humanity but also a matter of common sense. this debate is too important to be polluted by demagogic talk of rejecting others. we need to put in place the necessary arrangements to make this integration a success and an added value for society as a whole. in this respect, i welcome the approach taken in this report to not create a second labour market for refugees. these people must be able to enjoy the same social conditions as our european citizens. it is also important to ensure that they learn the language of the host country from the very beginning, to set up a system of recognition of skills and, more broadly, to allocate the necessary resources to ensure their full integration.
in writing. ‒ the report on the social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees voted today considers the current situation to be a humanitarian crisis. the report calls for a common asylum system with a permanent resettlement mechanism and for the improvement of safe and legal migration routes. we also call on the commission to promote upward convergence of social protection standards and to work for the efficient granting of work permits in the member states. a slow and drawn-out bureaucratic procedure makes refugees and asylum seekers particularly vulnerable to undeclared work and precarious working conditions. the report also calls for the existing legislation, such as the qualification directive and the directive laying down standards for the reception of applicants for international protection, to be taken into account. this legislation provides that asylum seekers and persons entitled to international protection have the right to access the labour market and language education. in addition, the importance of civil society organisations and volunteers strengthening the resilience and integration of asylum seekers and refugees is also emphasised. it has become a very constructive report, with an eye to the people themselves, which in turn benefits our whole society. that is why i am involved in politics and why i voted for this text.
in writing. - i voted for the report. the aim of the report is to clarify the exact subject under consideration by explicitly recalling what it means to be a refugee and the main elements of the current debate. to highlight the relevant issues, challenges and opportunities associated with the social inclusion and labour market integration of refugees; analysing the development and impact of recently adopted measures, actions and practices at union and member state level in order to achieve successful integration and inclusion in our society; finally, to present a series of proposals, recommendations and suggestions to improve the social inclusion and integration of refugees in the labour market. the structure outlined in the text attempts to reflect this approach. more generally, the report attempts to outline the complexity and multidimensional nature of the subject on the one hand and the urgency and need to find a solution on the other, bearing in mind that the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities are absolutely essential to solve this common european problem which requires a common european response.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we as europe need to do more in our response to the refugee crisis. the report calls first and foremost for a single european asylum system (a liberal demand). it is also impossible that we should create a special labour market for refugees. this reminds me of dark times in our common european history. the better the integration of refugees and asylum seekers into the labour market, the better the social adjustment and the better the tax revenues. this report also takes account of the plight of unaccompanied minors and the specific needs of female refugees.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution. the recent refugee crisis has shown us that something needs to change. the eu needs stronger and more coherent guidelines on how to deal with such a crisis.. it is an eu-wide holistic approach on how to improve migrant integration processes. it recognises that one of the best tools for integration is education. this will enable us to include migrants in the labour market. as a result they will have the opportunity to become an active member of society and contribute to it. in addition, this will enable the most vulnerable groups of migrants, namely children, to pursue a vital part in their development. finally, i welcome the fact that the resolution recognises the big challenges in this area, such as budget cuts, the aftermath of the financial crisis, and the worrying rise of xenophobic movements.
in writing. ‒ sustainability and corporate social responsibility are important issues. i have advocated that further wto reforms be actively promoted to establish multinational rules for the sustainable and responsible management of large supply chains. the aim is to promote health and safety standards and social protection. in general, the eu and the member states should also promote the theme of corporate social responsibility in trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ social, environmental and human rights standards in trade agreements have become major concerns for citizens. with this report, the socialist group has raised concerns about the level of ambition that the european union must respect in international agreements. we want to see legally binding and enforceable standards that hold companies and governments to account, taking into account the important views of civil society.
in writing. ‒ as the n-va delegation, we abstain on the resolution on the implementation of the 2010 recommendations of the parliament on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility. indeed, greater respect for human rights contributes to a democratic, peaceful and secure international environment. trade, as the exclusive competence of the eu, plays an important role in this. trade agreements can have a positive impact on human rights. n-va therefore believes that free trade can serve as a long-term instrument for the promotion of human rights. however, trade agreements should not be confused with human rights agreements. they are there primarily to stimulate trade and investment. trade agreements should be negotiated in such a way as to provide incentives for partners to make lasting commitments to improve human rights. we cannot therefore support the demand to impose binding, conditional human rights clauses on all future or ongoing trade negotiations. if trade partners are found to be involved in conflict or to be committing widespread human rights violations, it is necessary to proceed with care, to evaluate each case individually and to intervene where necessary.
in writing. the european union is the world's leading power and enjoys extraordinary soft power. international trade is one of its pillars. in this context, parliament encouraged the commission to integrate into its trade strategy the desire to strengthen respect for human rights and to defend social and environmental standards. the european union and the member states are not the only actors. as the report stresses, the responsibility of enterprises in implementing these priorities should not be underestimated. the report calls on the commission to include corporate social responsibility in eu trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the european parliament had already had the opportunity to make recommendations to the commission on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility. while i am glad that some of these recommendations have been implemented, i can only regret that others have remained unfulfilled. this report was an opportunity for our institution to highlight certain priorities. the report adopted by the european parliament contains a number of important recommendations in the above areas. recommendations to improve the lives of european citizens and workers. i would stress paragraph 40 of this report which states that 'the effective implementation of these recommendations is a crucial element in parliament's evaluation of trade agreements negotiated by the commission'. as for me, i say and i repeat, i will not vote for trade agreements which would endanger the health of our european citizens and the quality of life of our workers.
in writing. - i voted for this report. like other colleagues, we have insisted that compliance with the eight core labour standards and the four priority ilo conventions for industrialized countries, as well as with the relevant union legislation, should be included in a social clause in all bilateral or multilateral trade agreements of the european union and that these standards should be applied. it is necessary to provide incentives to encourage undertakings to make commitments in the field of corporate social responsibility (csr) and voluntary measures to identify and prevent any violation of human rights and environmental rights, as well as any form of corruption or tax evasion, including in their subsidiaries and supply chains.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the commission and the member states to mainstream a gender perspective in all policies, including trade policy. i voted in favour of this report because it asks the commission to take into account the aspects of gender equality, environmental and social standards in its assessment of the trade strategy. the report stresses the importance of trade and foreign investment as important means of achieving economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and the protection of human rights. it is recalled that trade and foreign direct investment increase prosperity in poorer countries. there is a significant link between increased prosperity and better protection of social and human rights, workers' rights and a higher level of environmental protection.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because it responds to the implementation of parliament’s 2010 recommendations and makes some very important remarks. i mainly support this resolution because it recognises an element that is essential in safeguarding and enhancing human rights, namely trade. moreover, it establishes the link between trade, foreign direct investment and sustainable development. a logical consequence of trade is indeed an increase in employment and prosperity. i welcome the resolution’s affirmation of the eu’s continuous support of human rights and democracy. in this regard, i agree that the commission has a very important role to play.
in writing. ‒ foreign trade is an essential factor in the development of the european economy. the european union is the richest economy in the world. however, this situation is likely to deteriorate: forecasts indicate that by 2050, the 28 eu member states will account for only 15% of global gdp, compared to 23.7% in 2013. it is therefore essential that the union has an effective, well-developed and forward-looking trade and investment strategy. this report includes, for the first time, the requirement that trade policy be used to increase cooperation in the fight against corruption, tax fraud and tax evasion. the coherence between the union's trade objectives and the other facets of its foreign policy is a priority in the face of the challenges facing the union in the 21st century, notably the migration challenge. trade and investment agreements should be designed to strengthen sustainable development and promote human rights, social and labour standards and environmental sustainability worldwide.
in writing. it is essential for the european union to define an ambitious trade and investment strategy in order to consolidate its role as the world's leading trading power. the importance is all the greater as the economic outlook 2050 estimates that the union is expected to represent only 15% of global gdp (compared to 23,7% in 2013). as the report points out, it is imperative to combat all forms of protectionism and to ensure a policy which is consistent between the internal market and external trade in order to give priority to job creation. it is also important that this strategy takes full account of respect for human rights, social and environmental standards. finally, it is imperative to strengthen intellectual property rights. european creativity is our strength. without respect for intellectual property rights we lose one of our greatest assets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on a new innovative future strategy for trade and investment which, while not perfect, does have the merit of highlighting some important elements. i am particularly pleased that in this text the european parliament considers that the basic ilo standards should be binding and form an essential part of the european union's trade agreements through enforceable commitments. the european parliament also said that as long as china does not meet the five criteria required by the eu to be able to claim market economy status, the eu should use a non-standard method for dumping and subsidy investigations of imports from china. the european parliament also considers that the current trade defence legislation needs to be modernised. we cannot accept that products from countries which practice social and environmental dumping come to compete unfairly with our european companies. the european union must be socially and environmentally ambitious in its trade agreements. and i will see to it that you do!
in writing. ‒ trade negotiations, such as the ctaa, the itpc, ceta and the saa, have brought european trade policy to the attention of the public. for many europeans, globalisation means job losses. they fear that the eu's trade and investment policy will jeopardise european regulations and standards. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that external trade is an essential factor in the development of the european economy. today, the european union is the richest economy in the world. however, this situation is likely to deteriorate: forecasts indicate that by 2050, the 28 eu member states will account for only 15% of global gdp, compared to 23.7% in 2013. the production of wealth is shifting eastwards, to the asia-pacific region. demographic change will also have the effect of reducing the european union's position on the world trade scene. it is therefore essential that the union has an effective, well-developed and forward-looking trade and investment strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the european union is doing a lot more to develop a forward-looking and innovative trade and investment strategy. the european parliament wants the commission to honour its commitment that no trade agreement will lead to a lowering of european consumer protection standards. i am very pleased that the report draws attention to the specific needs of smes and the agricultural sector. here too we can make greater efforts to support our entrepreneurs.
in writing. – i support the call for this ep resolution because trade and investment are essential to the eu economy. as economies in other parts of the world are becoming increasingly important, so are our relations with them. an important part of these relations are the agreements that enhance trade and investment. i strongly welcome a trade and investment strategy at eu level and agree that a liberalisation of trade will have a positive effect on the economy. in conjunction to the above, we need to ensure that the eu markets are protected from unfair competition and therefore need a trade defence strategy that is up to date. trade is one of the eu’s strongest tools in achieving its goals, both within and outside the union. in this regard, it can be used to enhance sustainable development and promote human rights. consequently, i can only be in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is one of the most profitable criminal activities, alongside drug trafficking and arms trafficking. the refugee crisis has increased the risk of trafficking in human beings, in particular for unaccompanied minors. awareness-raising programmes should draw attention to the difference between smugglers and traffickers among member states' staff responsible for receiving refugees and asylum seekers. the aim is to strengthen childcare systems for unaccompanied minors. it is estimated that 35.8 million people worldwide are held in a form of modern slavery, which also requires ensuring that european companies operating in third countries comply with labour standards. i am in favour of the proposal, because better international cooperation is essential to combat trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which recalls that, according to the un office on drugs and crime's world report on trafficking in persons (2014), 70% of all identified victims are women and girls. the report condemns what it considers to be a form of modern slavery and a serious crime which constitutes one of the worst violations of human rights. recalling that trafficking in human beings is a transnational crime with a global dimension, the report underlines the importance of a coherent approach to the internal and external aspects of eu policies to combat trafficking and deplores the chronic lack of adequate legislation to criminalise trafficking in human beings in many countries around the world. the report calls on the eu and its member states to: - make the necessary efforts to combat forced labour in eu companies abroad by enforcing labour law and worker protection standards; - provide more support to charitable organisations involved in psychological support for victims of forced prostitution.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted in favour of the report. the cross-border nature of trafficking in human beings requires an international and european approach. the figures are staggering, with an estimated 35 million people worldwide already victimized. the n-va is satisfied that the report takes a very clear position against human trafficking in all its forms: sexual exploitation, forced labour, torture and extortion, illegal removal of organs and tissues. it also proposes an integrated approach to trafficking in human beings. the proposed initiatives concern both the prevention of trafficking in human beings, assistance to victims and the detection and prosecution of traffickers. the n-va would like to make three critical remarks to the report. firstly, we consider a strict separation between immigration authorities and labour inspectorates to be counterproductive. many member states are trying to coordinate the work of their various public authorities in order to tackle trafficking in human beings more effectively. secondly, the n-va considers it unrealistic that companies would be held liable for the activities of affiliated companies. finally, it prefers non-binding recommendations to hold the business community accountable, rather than an international legally binding instrument.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on combating trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations because it contains a series of recommendations which i support with energy and conviction. although most countries around the world have laws against human trafficking, these laws are unfortunately not properly implemented or are very superficial. in addition, some companies in the european union are taking advantage of forced labour in other countries. the resolution supports the idea that eu trade policy should be used as an instrument to demand more efforts from third countries. finally, as regards victims, it is necessary to ensure that they are given adequate legal protection and are not threatened with being sent back to their country of origin. at the moment, only a few victims go to court because we don't protect them enough.
in writing. human trafficking must be considered a form of modern slavery and a serious violation of human rights. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. in order to combat these intolerable practices, a coherent approach by the member states of the union in the area of companies which have to adopt the necessary legal measures to eradicate trafficking in human beings in their supply chains should be encouraged. to do this, member states must put in place intergovernmental and legally binding legislation defining trafficking in human beings as a criminal offence. i therefore call on the member states to exchange information systematically by establishing better communication with third countries on crossborder traffic, which will make it possible to strengthen efforts in the union's external relations. in this context, further concrete solutions to end trafficking in human beings are needed to allow migrants to enter the union legally, without being subject to any exploitation.
in writing. ‒ human trafficking, a form of modern slavery, can involve sexual exploitation, forced labour, organ trafficking, forced begging, forced marriage, child soldiers and even the trafficking of babies. this unacceptable trafficking must be vigorously combated in all parts of the world. the report discussed and voted on at this european parliament plenary session focused in particular on the role of new information and communication technologies in the networks used to attract and exploit victims. it is therefore urgent that the european commission address this new phenomenon in order to develop a strategy to combat trafficking effectively. of course, this fight must not be waged at the level of the european union alone, but it is also the responsibility of the member states of the union and of all the countries of the world. it is essential that all countries of the world cooperate effectively to combat effectively and rapidly this form of slavery which i do not want to see in our present societies. i am in agreement with the recommendations made in this report and have decided to support this text.
in writing. ‒ human trafficking is a form of modern slavery and a serious crime, which constitutes one of the worst forms of human rights violations and cannot be tolerated in societies based on respect for human rights, including equality between men and women. it must also be seen in its entirety, focusing not only on sexual exploitation but also on forced labour, organ trafficking, forced begging, forced marriage, child soldiers and the trafficking of babies. the european union should strengthen police and judicial cooperation between member states and with third countries, in particular the countries of origin and transit of victims of trafficking in human beings, in the prevention, investigation and prosecution of trafficking in human beings, in particular through europol and eurojust.
‒ trafficking reduces human lives to numbers and commercial goods. human trafficking is one of the most profitable organized crime activities in the world, alongside illicit drugs and arms trafficking. the annual illicit profits from forced labour including money laundering amount to around usd 150 billion according to the latest ilo estimates, with an estimated two-thirds of the profits coming from commercial sexual exploitation. i voted for this report because it holds companies responsible for human rights violations in their work environments and with their subcontractors. i certainly support the call for greater attention to be paid to women's sexual and reproductive rights.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because human trafficking is a malicious activity that needs to be countered both within and outside the eu. this is a problem that can only be resolved at a global level. it is therefore important for this resolution to call upon the commission to take into account certain risks with regard to human trafficking, when negotiating visa liberalisation agreements with third countries. besides third countries, i do agree that we also need the help of our companies. this resolution offers solutions to some specific problems. for example, i understand the need to place firewalls between immigration authorities and labour inspectorates. it also calls for safer and legal ways for migrants to enter the eu and enhance their integration by strengthening integration programmes. other important aspects that are related to this problem also get attention, such as the right to sexual and reproductive health. in addition, it stresses the need to search for those refugees that are missing. finally, i applaud the call for better cooperation with europol, especially when it concerns child abuse.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, as everyone knows, the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework is too tight in budgetary terms, too rigid from a technical point of view and too conventional in political terms. it was negotiated and approved before the migration crisis, before the juncker fund was set up and the levy it entailed, before the russian embargo and its consequences for farmers, before the terrorist attacks and the need to strengthen the intelligence and security services. it is therefore legitimate, madam commissioner, that we ask the commission to propose a sound revision, one which is up to the challenges of today and their continuation, if not their worsening, tomorrow. the commission must not restrain itself. she did so in any case on the timing with the 2017 budget, which she delayed presenting so as not to favour the brexit supporters. it has not worked, and i hope the british government will behave like a gentleman and refrain from blocking the proposed revision. that said, my group strongly supports the excellent report - and i take this opportunity to congratulate the two authors - which is before us today. we support in particular the call to mobilise the necessary resources to support investment in smes and to revive growth, to sustain the youth employment initiative, to ensure better control of external borders, to organise genuine solidarity between member states and third states in line with their burden in receiving refugees, to tackle the real roots of the migration crisis in africa and the middle east, and to avoid a new payment crisis which is already inevitable if nothing changes. the commission must be the driving force behind european policies, madam commissioner, and it cannot be anything but the secretariat of the council.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on tax fraud and tax evasion: tax injustice is not the product of a physical, chemical or natural phenomenon. it is the product of political choices, and if it is the product of political choices, which some people have chosen to do, others may choose to undo it. i would like to welcome the strength of the report adopted by the taxe 2 committee and to pay tribute to michael theurer and jeppe kofod for producing a really excellent report. i think that this report is indeed moving in the right direction. i am also pleased to see that commissioner moscovici, on behalf of the commission, is in agreement with this report. but then, what's wrong? if there is a large majority here to fight against tax injustice, how is it that it actually persists? in fact, i have a clue: these are the amendments to the report we are going to adopt tomorrow, and in particular the amendments from the largest group in this house, the epp, which does not want the member states to be named, because - as bernd lucke said - there are many member states, including my own country, which are tax havens and which actively participate in this unfair tax competition. oh, can't we name them? the epp also does not want us to denounce the role of audit firms and tax advisory firms, and to name them. oh, no, that's not for us to talk about. why don't we talk about it? they wouldn't have any part to play? the same group doesn't want us to protect, at least not with ambition, whistleblowers. the ambition to protect whistleblowers must be reduced, or there is no question, as the report calls for at the moment, of banning this new vehicle for tax evasion, the so-called patent boxes. we propose that they be banned from 2021, but there are some here, particularly in the epp, who say: "oh no, all things considered, maybe we should leave them". we have reached the point of denial where even the statistics on financial flows in and out of countries like luxembourg and the netherlands are a secret that should not be revealed in our report, because obviously it indicates, perhaps, that these countries have become large-scale financial laundering machines. i therefore ask my colleagues in the epp: do you really want to fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, or do you want to look like you are fighting against tax fraud and tax evasion? because obviously, it's not very popular to charge the small taxpayers, whether they're individuals or corporations. that is, of course, my question to you. i am very disappointed, to be honest, that the main opposition on all points came from the largest group in this house. i am not, of course, talking about the council seats which are perpetually empty. as you know, the heads of state or government and the finance ministers do not seem to care much about what we say in this house.
a recent survey of european citizens shows that most europeans still strongly believe in the eu's added value. people look to europe for the big questions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. if we want to work positively on the future of the union, we must make a difference in dossiers like this. people have a right to a fair taxation. we must therefore make it clear to them that our fight will not stop after this report after the vote tomorrow. in the econ committee we will keep up the pressure on the member states. fair corporate taxation is high on our agenda. the announcement yesterday by minister osborne that the uk corporation tax will be reduced to below 15% is just one more indication of the pressure on tax competition between member states. the only winners in this case are the big corporations and the rich. they can afford to shop. but who's paying the bill? yes, the poor, the middle class and the small businesses. those shoulders can carry a lot, though. but they cannot bear the cost of our social welfare alone. that's not fair. that's not fair. if this parliament has to make its voice heard somewhere, even in the future, let it be about this. we owe it to our citizens.
i asked for the figures on drowning recently and i find them quite shocking. in 2014 there were 3 280 deaths, in 2015 there were 3 770 and in 2016 there have been 3 630 victims so far. the eu's open borders policy is increasingly putting people in crappy boats. that is why frontex is being transformed into the eu border and coast guard, to guard our external borders and actively discourage migrants from making the dangerous crossing. yes, responsibility for border control still lies with the member states and our external borders, but in an emergency the agency can take over border control. for example, if greece has a low rate of return, the agency can intervene and carry out return operations to turkey itself. and if greece or any other member state refuses to let that eu agency work, then other eu member states like belgium have the right to close their internal borders, for up to two years. letting anyone into europe and sending them to our region can no longer be an option. with the eu-turkey deal, eu policy will finally focus on return from march 2016. in this context, the eu border guard was given broad powers in the coordination and organisation of return operations. the nva is interested in this enlargement and it is up to the agency to make it happen. the european union must also conclude anti-drowning pacts with all the countries bordering the mediterranean. asylum seekers who have already been safe abroad should be returned to those countries after an accelerated procedure. a systematic pushback policy can then be further developed. europe can only accommodate genuine refugees, and there is a ceiling on this. the reinforced agency will also deal with the detection and prevention of terrorism. this is important because 17 fighters from the islamic state terror group have entered europe as refugees - as we read in the newspaper this week - two of whom blew themselves up in paris.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the implementation of the schengen agreement, which is a very important document. i am pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the implementation of the schengen agreement, which is a very important document. instead of a restoration of internal borders and a pushback policy modelled on australia, an eu civil service apparatus is given extra grip, with power, with coercive means in border and immigration policy that originally belonged to the member states. instead of humbly acknowledging the moral bankruptcy of open borders and schengen, you persist in maintaining these concepts and adding a dose of good sense to them. i call on you, colleagues: please give europe back to its countries.
madam president, commissioner, the current migration crisis has taught us one essential lesson: freedom of movement in the schengen area is only viable if the external borders are effectively controlled and protected. there is a second truth that should be reminded to those who advocate control and national sovereignty over borders: in the schengen area, an external border is no longer just a national border. it's become a common border. those who land in calais or come by boat to calais are not just coming to france. he can go freely to berlin, rome, madrid, amsterdam, brussels. if you land in lisbon, you can go to riga, warsaw, budapest. and i think that what is a common border should ideally be managed in common or at least in a joint way. that is what we are being asked to approve today and my group and i will approve it. if a member state does all that is necessary to control the common border effectively and succeeds in doing so, it can do so without anyone intervening. only when he fails will he be helped by the other european states.
the resolution on the table is a good example of how we can work more efficiently. this is a good opportunity to achieve synergies between the structural funds and horizon 2020. i am also very pleased that the present text does not undermine the integrity of the two programmes, but demonstrates their complementarity. horizon 2020 supports scientific research according to the criterion of excellence, but the budget is not sufficient to support all promising projects. the seal of excellence does ensure that the structural funds can identify and support them easily and quickly, a good example of synergy. i personally think it is very important that smes in particular should benefit from this. that is why we must reduce the administrative burden. this is a great opportunity to support science, to stimulate innovation and thus to ensure future prosperity and employment.
mr president, mr fico, i will be frank with you. your speech today, in front of us, has not succeeded in making me forget many of the things you said in your own country. and like many of our colleagues, i have difficulty trusting these politicians who speak european languages in brussels and strasbourg, while they are the only ones who are nationalistic, or even populist, when they return to their own countries. however, your country will hold the presidency of the european union for six months and we will have to work together as closely as possible. for that, things must be clear. mr president-in-office of the council, you will be holding the presidency of the union, of the whole union, not just of part of it. i say this because i know that on a number of important issues you are now making common cause with a number of countries in opposing important initiatives of the commission. i would like to mention in particular your opposition to the reform of the dublin system, a reform which aims to organise a fair and sustainable distribution of refugees in all the countries of the union. i also want to mention your opposition to the reform of the directive on the posting of workers, which is aimed at combating certain insidious social dumping practices that the current directive has allowed. so i say to you, mr president, that your responsibility in these cases is to seek the best solution for the whole of europe, not just the victory of a protest union. that is the standard by which you will be judged and i hope that the judgment will be positive.
mr president, your presidency is beginning under a turbulent climate. over the past two weeks, we've heard many different sounds, but one constant. the european union needs a compelling narrative to maintain or regain the trust of its citizens. concrete and tangible results can play a decisive role in this. as rapporteur for this parliament's recent report on biodiversity, i would like to make one concrete suggestion: you are fully committed to the preservation of the nature directives and are determined to improve their implementation. the guidelines are fit for purpose. as you know, this position enjoys overwhelming support not only in this hemisphere. at least 15 member states agree with this story and the more than 500 000 citizens who took part in the nature alert campaign expect nothing less from the european union than that the existing rules of nature are properly implemented. suppose you didn't disappoint half a million citizens and made it a priority to save the nature guidelines during your presidency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal for the conclusion of a protocol containing a framework agreement with azerbaijan. azerbaijan is part of the eastern partnership of the european neighbourhood policy and is an important partner, particularly from the energy point of view. such a protocol will lay the foundations for good cooperation, while recalling the need to respect democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. this resolution endorses the conclusion of the protocol on a framework agreement between the union and azerbaijan establishing the general principles, namely the financial and technical rules, for the participation of azerbaijan in union programmes. the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes to neighbourhood countries was outlined by the commission as early as 2006 and defined as one of the components of the european neighbourhood policy. however, since 2013, the negotiations initiated between the union and azerbaijan to establish a new in-depth contractual relationship have stalled. furthermore, these negotiations do not follow the eu-azerbaijan visa facilitation and readmission agreements. for these reasons, i welcome this initiative. this is of paramount importance not only because of the strategic role of this energy partner, but also because it would benefit sectoral cooperation with azerbaijan. i also believe that interpersonal contacts will also be encouraged. this last aspect is very important in responding to the growing difficulties faced by civil society actors and organisations. in conclusion, i welcome the protocol which will open up new opportunities for collaboration with civil society in azerbaijan by developing democracy in the country.
in writing. ‒ like a large majority of my colleagues, i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and azerbaijan, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and azerbaijan laying down the general principles for the participation of azerbaijan in union programmes. under the european neighbourhood policy, it is planned to open certain programmes and agencies to the partner countries of this policy, as is the case with azerbaijan. the aim of this neighbourhood policy is to promote reform, modernisation and transition in our neighbouring countries. as a reminder, azerbaijan indicated in october 2012 that it wished to participate in the wide range of programmes open to the european neighbourhood policy partner countries. it was therefore important to have a memorandum of understanding on this subject detailing the specific terms and conditions applicable to its participation, and that has now been done.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this protocol, the purpose of which is to define the financial and technical rules which will enable azerbaijan to participate in certain eu programmes open to third countries. the specific terms and conditions applicable to the participation of azerbaijan in each specific programme will then be determined in an agreement between the commission and the competent authorities of azerbaijan.
in writing. ‒ the eu-azerbaijan partnership and cooperation agreement entered into force on 1 july 1999. since 2010, the eu and azerbaijan have been negotiating new and improved relations. azerbaijan is an important energy partner of the eu. however, in recent years parliament has expressed concern at the increasing problems faced by organisations and representatives of civil society. i voted for this report because the rule of law, human rights and democracy must remain at the heart of the eu's relations with third countries. this report makes explicit reference to this.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report on amending budget no 2/2016 which aims to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus of the 2015 financial year, namely eur 1,349 billion. the report also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's contribution to the two eu trust funds is matched by the eu's contribution to the two eu trust funds. in the spring of 2016, member states had contributed only eur 82 million to the emergency trust fund for africa and eur 69 million to the madad fund in response to the syrian crisis, while union contributions amounted to eur 1,8 billion and over eur 500 million respectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus of 2015 amounting to eur 1 349 million. this operation will result in a reduction of the share of member states' gni-based contributions to the union budget in 2016 by the same amount. i therefore invite the member states to use the opportunity offered by this reimbursement to honour their commitments in connection with the refugee crisis and to contribute to the emergency trust fund for africa and the madad fund in response to the syrian crisis. i regret, once again, that any surplus resulting from under-implementation of appropriations or fines imposed on undertakings for infringement of eu competition law cannot be used to meet the financial needs of the union budget, especially in a period of shortage of payment appropriations. i hope that this question can be resolved in the context of the review of the mff.
in writing. the eu budget surplus for the financial year 2015 is 1 349 million. the inclusion of this amount in the 2016 budget reduces the member states' contribution to that budget, which is a good thing. moreover, as a general rule, i am one of those who insist that the union budget should be able to reuse any surplus from the previous financial year or use the amounts from fines imposed on companies for breaches of union competition law. in this way, the union will be better able to cope with the unpredictable and to meet its financial needs, especially in times of shortage of payment appropriations. this issue will need to be formally resolved during the review of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amending budget for the financial year 2016 which aims to enter in the 2016 budget the surplus of the financial year 2015, namely eur 1,349 billion. since this amending budget will reduce the share of member states' contributions to the union budget, i would argue that this money should be used by those same states to honour their commitments in connection with the refugee crisis. i also support the idea that the union should be able to reuse any surplus from under-implementation of appropriations or fines imposed on undertakings for breaches of eu competition law to meet its financial needs. we shall see what happens to this demand when the multiannual financial framework is revised, which is due to take place shortly.
in writing. - we voted for this bill. i would stress that instead of adjusting contributions based on gni, the union budget should be able to reuse any surplus resulting from under-utilisation of appropriations or fines imposed on undertakings for breaches of union competition law in order to meet its financial needs, and in particular in times of shortage of payment appropriations. i hope that this issue will be resolved in the context of the review of the mff.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the principle that the share of member states' contributions to the union budget will be reduced by eur 1 349 million in 2016, on condition that member states use these backflows to meet their commitments in relation to the refugee crisis and that they align their contributions to the two relevant trust funds with those of the union.
in writing. ‒ network and information security (nis) is becoming increasingly important in our economy and society, as it creates an important prerequisite for creating a reliable environment for the global flow of services. however, such systems can be destroyed by human error, natural events, technical errors, or malicious attacks. the existing nis capacities and mechanisms are not sufficient to ensure eu-wide protection against problems and risks. the proposal is to create a minimum level of national capacity and to establish nis authorities in the member states and an it emergency team. national nis authorities should cooperate as closely as possible to ensure safe coordination. i have therefore agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive, which lays down measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union in order to improve the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i supported this directive to establish a common level of network and information security and to strengthen cooperation between member states. the aim is to better manage cyberattacks against companies that provide essential services (such as energy, air transport, drinking water supply, banking and health services, digital services such as search engines and cloud computing services). the establishment of these first eu-wide cybersecurity rules should also help to better prevent attacks against the interconnected infrastructures of european countries, as cybersecurity incidents very often have a cross-border dimension and therefore affect more than one member state of the european union. finally, it is also one of the first legislative frameworks to apply to platforms and an important first step towards establishing a comprehensive regulatory framework for platforms within the union.
in writing. networks and information systems are the nerve centres of our societies. they play a vital role in the cross-border movement of goods, services and people. this transnational dimension requires a genuine european strategy that is responsive to the challenges of cybersecurity in a globalised world. by voting in favour of this directive, we are asking member states to establish a national cybersecurity authority, develop a national strategy and have an operational structure to assist in dealing with cyber incidents. companies will therefore have to report significant it incidents to this national authority. this is the only way for ms to help them better protect their systems and secrets. i think we should fight for europe to achieve digital sovereignty. this means a voluntary industrial policy, at national and european level, which supports our companies and smes to enable them to develop products and/or services essential for computer security, for the information and telecommunications sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive on measures to ensure a high common level of security of network and information systems in the union. while each member state is required to develop its own cybersecurity strategy, there is a need for strategic cooperation at european level. therefore, that directive provides for the establishment of a cooperation group composed of representatives of the member states, the commission and the european union agency for network and information security and the establishment of a network of national csirts in order to contribute to the building of trust between member states and to promote swift and effective operational cooperation. it is hoped that member states will soon transpose this directive to improve cybersecurity in europe.
in writing. ‒ we have just voted on the first european cybercrime rules. fake banking websites, identity theft, viruses, malware, industrial or personal espionage - these crimes claim a million victims a day and cost over 350 billion euros a year! first, companies in sensitive sectors (banking, energy, health, etc.) are obliged to report security incidents as soon as they are discovered, failing which they risk heavy fines and sanctions. secondly, these sectors have an obligation to provide efficient services, able to withstand the most hostile cyberattacks. these very strict obligations will also have to be applied to search engines such as google, cloud computing and online marketplaces such as amazon or ebay. this is a real breakthrough for the e-security of european citizens and businesses, with more than one billion data breaches in 2014 alone.
in writing. ‒ companies that provide essential services such as energy, transport, banking or healthcare or companies that provide online services such as search engines or cloud computing services need to take action to be able to repel cyberattacks. after two years, the european council, the commission and the parliament have finally reached agreement on what needs to be done to raise the level of network and information security. each member state should designate an authority to coordinate this at national level. national governments will set up computer crisis teams, as well as a national action plan to protect the cyber incident. the private and public sectors also need to cooperate and share information across borders. i voted for this report in the hope that the preparation of this european decision in belgium will not take as long as the decision itself took at eu level. in belgium, the government has already appointed a national authority to function under the prime minister. the rest of the decision needs to be implemented quickly as more and more of the lives of our citizens, children and businesses are being played out online and the protection there is not yet optimal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this harmonisation on energy labelling, which is good for the environment because consumers can, wherever they are in the union, obtain accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy efficiency and energy consumption of energy-related products, enabling them to make informed, cost-effective and environmentally friendly purchasing decisions, for the benefit of both the environment and their wallet.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal from the european commission to introduce a new scale identifying more strictly the energy efficiency of household appliances. on the basis of the information available to us, this new nomenclature seems necessary in order to make labelling clearer, stronger and safer and to keep pace with technological progress. it will also set stricter requirements and provide further impetus for improvements in energy efficiency. the text provides that test methods and environments should be as close as possible to the real-life use of the product by the average consumer and calls on the european commission to publish transitional european measurement and calculation methods with regard to the specific requirements of the products. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes.
in writing. energy efficiency labelling provides consumers with information on the efficiency and lifetime of energy-related products. labelling also reduces energy consumption and thus reduces the cost of energy bills for citizens. in order to continue to promote innovation in energy-saving products, i believe it is important to maintain the colour scale indicating to consumers the energy efficiency of products from a to g. this allows for greater transparency and understanding of the energy use of products on the market. this energy labelling must therefore be considered as the only valid labelling in the european union in order to ensure optimal monitoring of energy products available on the market. in order to ensure consistent implementation of energy labelling, suppliers will have to ensure that each product has a data sheet complying with european standards showing the energy efficiency of the product on the defined scale from a to g. this means that each member state will have to submit to these measures and submit an annual report, which i believe will lead to a better compliance of energy products on the european market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a single but also clearer labelling on the energy efficiency of household appliances. one study shows that 85% of european consumers take the energy index into account when choosing a product. however, the current system is considered unclear, since the majority of products are classified a (a+, a++, a+++). in order to make the energy labelling system easier to read and to enable consumers to make an informed choice when purchasing electrical appliances, the text provides for a scale from a to g, thus replacing the + increasingly present in the current upper class. electrical equipment suppliers will then have to refer to this new scale in all their advertising. a good step forward in the defence of european consumers.
in writing. ‒ today, when buying a refrigerator or a washing machine, you can choose from a wide variety of designations such as aaa, a+ and so on. it shows the success of the energy label: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. it is therefore high time that a new scale was developed so that it is clear which appliances are the most economical. the european parliament, however, is threatening to limit supervision and to completely remove the ambition of some devices. products are consuming less and less energy, which is why plus signs are being added to labels. that makes the system unclear and makes outdated techniques still seem like a good buy. the christian democrats and the liberals are ignoring outdated techniques at the expense of consumers and the climate. for example, they say that boiler labels will not be scaled up until 2030. the gas boiler manufacturers are getting their lobbying rewarded: as long as their product is in the green zone, it sells better. many of these boilers are hardly energy efficient. by giving them an a-label until 2030, you're misinforming the consumer.
in writing. ‒ there was no harmonisation of energy efficiency labelling for european household electrical appliances. this dusty find will soon be filed away in the broom closet. the european parliament will vote today on a single labelling scale from a to g to provide clearer information to consumers and reduce their energy consumption. in addition, all new products placed on the eu market will have to be registered in an online database, which will provide greater transparency and facilitate market surveillance by national authorities - both very good news for the european consumer, which will ultimately represent a saving of €15 per year per household.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted today in favour of the report on energy labelling. the energy label was in dire need of renewal because of the ambiguity it created for the consumer. by adding pluses, the incentive for consumers to make the most energy-conscious choice was gone. by establishing the scale from a to g and by providing for a system of rescheduling in case of overcrowding of the upper classes, the system is maintained at efficiency gains. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. the labels have proved useful in the past. the system leaves the choice to the consumer to make an informed choice on the basis of full information. with this update to the existing system, we're providing renewed clarity.
in writing. ‒ my colleague, mr wierinck, has followed this case very closely. i voted for this report because i believe it is important that consumers can make informed choices. this will make a significant contribution to energy savings and lower energy bills, while promoting innovation and investment in the manufacture of more energy-efficient products.
in writing. – i strongly support this proposal for a regulation. i am shadow on this file and i am pleased with the result. in order for the labels to fit their purpose, there was a practical necessity to rescale them. in addition, it gives the citizen a more central place in the eu energy transition, through the public interface of a database. the consumer needs to be able to quickly determine what he/ she is buying and how energy efficient their product is, relative to other ones. another important goal is to stimulate producers in creating increasingly innovative products and applications. given the recent problems with regard to emissions in the automobile industry, it is important that consumer trust is restored. therefore, compliance with new legislation needs to be thoroughly followed up on. throughout the entire process i have tried to safeguard the balance between the protection of the consumer, the protection of the producer and that of the distributors, keeping in mind the practical viability of this new regulation.
in writing. ‒ following the terrorist attacks of this and last year, ten schengen member states have reintroduced internal border controls. although this is usually only temporary, it nevertheless shows that better controls at external borders are needed to increase internal security. that is why i have voted in favour of the proposal with the greatest conviction. the powers of frontex must be considerably extended. the european union is also proposing to set up a european border and coast guard to replace frontex. this guard shall be composed of the national authorities responsible for border management, including the coast guard. the concept of european integrated management of external borders is to be legally enshrined for the first time. in addition, the agency's role in the field of return, capacity building and international cooperation with third countries is to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ compared to the european commission's original text, the s&d group made significant progress in negotiations such as the inclusion of 'search and rescue' and humanitarian operations in the missions of the european border and coast guard agency, the reference to fundamental rights in various parts of the text and the fact that the agency will be accountable to the council and the european parliament. however, as this text was not accompanied by measures on, for example, the opening of legal migration routes, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ an agreement on a european border and coast guard has been reached in record time, so that it can start after the summer. if a crisis occurs at a european external border and a member state fails to act sufficiently, the joint border guard will be able to take over the external border surveillance. the budget of the eu border agency will be more than doubled (from eur 143 million to eur 322 million) and, together with the troops provided by the eu member states, a reserve of 1 500 border guards will be created, ready to be deployed within a week to support the countries on the external borders. effective surveillance of external borders is crucial for a good response to the migration crisis, a coherent european security policy and the avoidance of new borders in europe. concrete european responses such as these are the best defense against populists and europe-bashers.
in writing. ‒ the current migration crisis has clearly demonstrated that the schengen area without internal borders is only viable if the external borders are effectively secured and protected. i therefore welcome the creation of a european border and coast guard corps based on the frontex agency, which will be given specific powers, including direct intervention at the external borders of a failing member state by decision of the council. this is to prevent shortcomings in the management of external borders or unforeseen migratory flows from undermining the smooth functioning of the schengen area. to fulfil its new tasks, the agency's technical and operational capacity has been strengthened. it will be responsible for managing a common pool of technical equipment and will now have a rapid reaction pool of at least 1 500 border guards to be deployed from each member state within 3 working days. the creation of this new agency, with its own human and technical resources and a right to intervene at the external borders of a member state, represents a decisive step towards an integrated european system for the management of the union's external borders.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this major new legislation establishing a european border and coast guard. this is a new step towards a genuine european management of our common borders. this review of frontex once again shows that the union is responding to the expectations of european citizens, which were also expressed in the last european barometer. the management and control of our external borders is a matter of common interest and should be a shared responsibility at union level. this new agency is a major step forward in providing real resources, both budgetary and human. the new agency will have a reserve of 1 500 staff, to be mobilised as soon as possible, and will have the capacity to acquire and use its own equipment quickly. freedom of movement in the schengen area is one of the greatest achievements of the european construction, but it is only viable if our external borders are effectively controlled. finally, i welcome the clear competences of the agency in search and rescue, as well as the reinforced rules on its liability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation establishing a european border and coast guard corps. i would have liked this text to be more in the direction of more europe with a frontex agency with more powers. i must admit, however, that this text is moving in the right direction. with this new regulation, frontex will have more resources through a permanent reserve of 1 500 border guards who will be made available in case of need. the border guards will thus be able to provide support in the event of a sudden influx of migrants, but will also be able to combat cross-border crime and terrorist threats. it is hoped that this strengthening of the frontex agency will make it possible to provide more serene and humane care for asylum seekers in the event of a large influx. it is the duty of the european union to welcome these people with dignity, but also to support those eu countries which are most affected by these flows. this is a matter of solidarity.
in writing. - i voted yes. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard corps aims to establish a european border and coast guard corps to ensure integrated management of the external borders of the european union. this proposal is timely and responds to the challenges facing the european union in the context of the current migration and refugee crisis. it is estimated that between january and november 2015 alone, about 1.5 million people crossed the border illegally.
in writing. ‒ i have long advocated, together with my group, an efficient border and coast guard. this proposal for a commission regulation is part of a broader border and coast guard package. the commission proposes to extend the mandate of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the european fisheries control agency (efca) by an additional article on european cooperation in coast guard tasks, while the european border and coast guard agency will be built on the existing frontex. i voted for this.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this regulation because changes need to be made to the current regime. the recent migration crisis has shown that we need a holistic, coherent approach at an eu level when it comes to managing such crises. with the emergence of terrorism this has become all the more important. in order to maintain free movement within the eu, we need a common agency to protect our outside borders. the european border and coast guard will fulfil this task. it will simply be a more efficient and effective equivalent to frontex and its national counterparts through enhanced cooperation. in addition, it includes anticipatory measures such as the preventive identification of weak spots in the border control systems. i understand that, in order to achieve these goals, they will need increased resources, such as equipment, etc. finally, i welcome the fact that it stresses the importance of a high degree of accountability and transparency. this will provide the legitimacy that is needed for this agency.
in writing. ‒ currently, more than 300 civil and military authorities in the member states are working on a wide range of coast guard tasks. in carrying out these tasks, they are actively assisted by frontex, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency. however, national authorities should cooperate even more closely, especially in operational monitoring and data exchange. i therefore voted in favour of the commission's proposal, which envisages a better allocation of capacity and thus a better cost-efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative proposal which will strengthen european cooperation on coast guard functions and improve cooperation and coordination between the relevant eu agencies in order to increase synergies between their respective services, which will allow them to offer national authorities with coast guard functions more efficient and cost-effective multi-purpose services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on its position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the regulation amending the regulation on the european maritime safety agency. the mandate of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) had to be amended to align it with that of the european border and coast guard corps, so as to allow these agencies to coordinate their operations at sea and share information. national authorities with coast guard functions are responsible for a wide range of tasks, which may include maritime safety and security, search and rescue operations, border control, fisheries control, customs control, general law enforcement and environmental protection. the two agencies should therefore strengthen their cooperation within their mandate, both with each other and with national authorities with coast guard functions, in order to improve the assessment of the maritime situation and to support coherent and cost-effective action.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of its position on the commission's proposal to amend the mandate of the european maritime safety agency. the amendment aims to strengthen cooperation between the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the new european border and coast guard agency. this increased cooperation will, in particular, allow for a better exchange of information between agencies and thus improve efficiency, transparency and responsiveness. i am pleased that this cooperation will help to provide greater support to the national authorities with coast guard functions in the various tasks they are entrusted with, in particular in the context of search and rescue missions at sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reports amending the regulations establishing the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the fisheries control agency. these reports will help to strengthen cooperation between the agencies and the national authorities performing the coast guard function. this enhanced cooperation of coast guard functions in the mandates of the two agencies is crucial in the current context of migratory pressure, in particular with a view to the best possible organisation of rescues at sea.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency.
in writing. ‒ i welcomed this report because it also establishes cooperation on coast guard tasks between the agency and the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency through working arrangements, in accordance with their respective mandates and the financial rules applicable to the agencies.
in writing. ‒ currently, more than 300 civil and military authorities in the member states are working on a wide range of coast guard tasks. in carrying out these tasks, they are actively supported by frontex, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency. however, in order to create a european system of coastguards, the european fisheries control agency needs to be further promoted. that is why i agreed to the proposal. the new regulation will strengthen the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and introduce a more effective fisheries control system.
in writing. ‒ national authorities performing coast guard functions are responsible for a significant number of tasks in areas as diverse as safety, security, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and general law enforcement. there are now 316 national authorities in the european union. these many authorities work together through 70 different structures. as a result, the current cooperation system suffers from slowdowns and failures, including lack of information on the competences, powers and capacities of other authorities, limited number of operational assets, lack of interoperability of systems and assets and limitation of joint planning and operations. the proposal will coordinate maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations at european level to improve knowledge of the maritime situation and support coherent and cost-effective actions.
in writing. the european fisheries control agency, which has so far been limited to fisheries-related operations, can now extend its scope of action to other areas. the proposal adopted today formalises the agency's new tasks. the mandates of the agency, the maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency are thus adjusted to facilitate cooperation between them. this enhanced cooperation should aim at a better exchange of information and pooling of capabilities to maximise the effectiveness of support to national authorities with coast guard functions. in the current context of migration and tragedies at sea, we cannot do without perfect coordination between the various actors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the reports amending the regulations establishing the european maritime safety agency (emsa) and the fisheries control agency. these reports will enhance cooperation between the agencies and the national authorities performing the coast guard function. this enhanced cooperation of coast guard functions within the mandates of the two agencies is crucial in the current context of migratory pressure, in particular with a view to the best possible organisation of rescues at sea.
in writing. ‒ national authorities performing coast guard functions are responsible for a significant number of tasks in areas as diverse as safety, security, rescue at sea, border control, customs control, environmental protection and general law enforcement. there are now 316 national authorities in the european union. these many authorities work together through 70 different structures. as a result, the current cooperation system suffers from slowdowns and failures, including lack of information on the competences, powers and capacities of other authorities, limited number of operational assets, lack of interoperability of systems and assets and limitation of joint planning and operations. the proposal will coordinate maritime surveillance, prevention and control operations at european level to improve knowledge of the maritime situation and support coherent and cost-effective actions.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this proposal is to enable the fisheries control agency and both european agencies, which are involved in disasters at sea, among other things, to coordinate their operations at sea and to exchange useful information for their actions. the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency should be able to cooperate by pooling their capabilities and exchanging surveillance information for the purposes of maritime safety and security. i voted for this report. the proposal clearly defines the tasks of the european fisheries control agency.
in writing. ‒ the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is assisted in its work by a secretariat. this secretariat is still occupied by the agency. the proposal is intended to change this. in order to strengthen independence, the commission will in future be responsible for the secretariat. i have voted in favour of the proposal because i consider the independence of the eu agencies to be very important.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which aims to strengthen the independence of the olaf monitoring committee secretariat so that the committee can function more effectively.
in writing. i welcomes the proposal to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013 concerning the management of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the proposal aims to resolve conflicts of interest which require a strengthening of the committee's legal independence in the management of its budget and the secretariat and which have already been the subject of several revisions in the past. the strengthening of the independence of the olaf secretariat will allow for more efficient operation and will avoid as much as possible problems of administrative dysfunction, as was the case in february 2012, when 423 cases were opened on the same day following a decision by the director-general. in order to avoid such scenarios, it is necessary that the secretariat of the supervisory committee be managed directly by the commission and no longer by olaf. it is also more logical in this context that the implementation of the budget appropriations of the members of the committee should not be the responsibility of the director-general of olaf, but of the commission.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of strengthening the independence of the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) to make it more efficient, which requires an independent and adequately staffed secretariat. the exercise by the director-general of olaf of the powers of the appointing authority, in particular with regard to decisions on promotion or transfer, is liable to give rise to conflicts of interest. the budget of the office and that of its secretariat should therefore be entered in a separate budget line in olaf's budget.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to strengthen the independence of the secretariat of the european anti-fraud office (olaf) monitoring committee so that it can function more effectively. in the past, the european parliament has repeatedly called on the commission to take measures to strengthen the independent functioning of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, as in its report on the discharge procedure for the financial year 2013 (the 'report') and in its resolution on the 2014 annual report of the olaf supervisory committee (the 'resolution'). the matter was also discussed in the exchange of views between the council, parliament and the commission provided for in article 16 of the olaf regulation. during the exchange of views on 28 september 2015, the representatives of the european parliament reiterated the need to strengthen the independent functioning of the secretariat of the supervisory committee.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat, so that the supervisory committee can function more effectively. olaf is the european anti-fraud office. i voted for this.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which stresses that any review of the union's multiannual financial framework (mff) must of course take account of new crises and policies that were not necessarily anticipated when the mff was established: the migration situation, the internal security problem, the agricultural crisis, persistent unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, efsi funding, etc. these elements will have to be appropriately budgeted in any revision of the union's budgetary projections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution calling for a mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. this resolution reflects many of the priorities of our group, which i was able to defend as a fictitious rapporteur. we called for greater flexibility, for an upward revision of the ceilings for payment and commitment appropriations under heading 1a, with the aim in particular of restoring the appropriations originally allocated to the horizon 2020 programme and the connecting europe facility, but also for the ceilings under heading 3 in order to deal with the migration crisis. we also supported the continuation of the youth employment initiative, because while it is our duty to address the refugee crisis, it is our obligation and priority to build the future of our young people by guaranteeing them jobs and supporting investment in smes.
in writing. brexit, the migration crisis and the persistence of high unemployment are all signals calling for a major revision of the mff budget by the eu. the uk's exit has serious consequences for the eu budget, which will be cut by some 20 billion. however, this loss will be partly offset by the uk's withdrawal from the structural funds and its financial participation in the single market, as is the case for norway and switzerland. brexit will also have repercussions on acp countries, particularly africa. around 100 trade agreements will probably have to be renegotiated as they were concluded via the eu, which will require years of readjustment. the main countries affected will inevitably be south africa, nigeria, botswana, angola, kenya, ghana and senegal: 80% of uk exports to sub-saharan africa are made in these countries. the creation of eu trust funds for africa, estimated at €405 million, is a necessity. i regret, however, the proliferation of instruments outside the eu budget. a thorough review of the mff should be carried out in 2019 on revenue and expenditure.
in writing. ‒ brexit will have major consequences in many areas of the european union, including budgetary matters. i therefore ask the european commission, like my colleagues, to provide the budgetary authority with all the relevant information on the possible budgetary implications of this referendum, without prejudging the outcome of the forthcoming negotiations between the united kingdom and the union. beyond the question of the consequences of the united kingdom's departure from the european union for the budget of the european union, this position statement of the european parliament addresses important issues, particularly in the social field. as the fictitious rapporteur for the empl opinion, i have advocated the continuation of the youth employment initiative and i am glad that this request is in the report. i am also pleased to note that the european parliament is once again calling on the member states to honour their commitments without delay and to assume their responsibilities in order to manage the influx of refugees in a dignified and humane manner. now let us hope that the commission hears our call and makes an ambitious proposal for a revision of the multiannual financial framework which will enable the european union to meet its main challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text, as i had done in committee. on the agri-environmental side, the cap provides additional income for farmers through the first and second pillars, which support agricultural production, environmental programmes and economic activity in rural areas and combat rural exodus. i note in this connection that it is essential that the current budget be at least maintained at the same level so that the two-pillar structure of the cap can be preserved in order to compensate and support farms in all agricultural sectors, to achieve the important objective of innovation, to protect existing jobs, to create new ones and to improve farmers' incomes. i would stress that maintaining rural development within the cap is essential to the conduct of a coherent and effective rural development policy and that this area should be provided with adequate funding to ensure the long-term viability of rural areas.
in writing. ‒ the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020 was finalised in 2013. in the meantime, the mff is being reviewed in the light of a number of major crises and new political initiatives and their respective budgetary implications. the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security issues, the crisis in the agricultural sector, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the payment crisis in the eu budget, persistently high unemployment, especially among young people, as well as poverty and social exclusion, are among the issues to be considered. i agreed to the report. i voted against the amendment which would have removed the references to lgbti.
in writing. – i support this resolution because it gives a good view on the assessment of the 2014-2020 mff. it is a good thing that it stresses the various crises that need to be taken into account and recognises that the margin available to address such crises is too small. the refugee and migration crises in particular play a central role here. furthermore, it rightly identifies risks such as the low levels of investment and youth unemployment, underlining that research and development have frequently been the first areas subject to budget cuts, even though they are extremely important for the future of our economy. in addition, it stresses the importance of financial instruments as a tool that is complementary to subsidies and grants. i welcome the call for reform of the eu’s own resources system. it needs to be simpler and more transparent. moreover, the eu needs new sources of income that are explored here.
in writing. ‒ last week, a report on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect was voted in parliament. the report proposes concrete measures and addresses important issues, which is why i support it entirely. the internal market and a social market economy require a fair tax system in which international companies also pay taxes where value and profits are created. tax dumping is detrimental to the general public and cannot be justified in any way vis-à-vis the small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the backbone of our european economy. the key requirements include a common approach to eu external taxation policy with exit or withholding taxation, a consolidated common corporate tax, an eu list of tax havens and a register of beneciaries. moreover, sanctions should be allowed against tax havens and against those actively involved in tax evasion. in addition, in addition to the need to curb the misuse of patent boxes, a comprehensive reform of the group's code of conduct and effective protection for whistleblowers are also essential. as for whistleblowers, it's not that courage and civic courage can be punished in individual cases, but both will have saved billions in tax revenue in the end, while politicians don't have to face personal consequences.
in writing. ‒ this report concludes the mission of the second special committee on the fight against tax evasion. i voted in favour of this text, which calls on the commission to act in many ways, including the creation of an efficient, up-to-date and easily usable database of all tax returns with effects in several countries. the report also made some recommendations to introduce the possibility of making financial institutions, banks and tax advisers jointly liable in the event of tax evasion. another key element is to strengthen european legislation to prohibit the use of fictitious patent boxes. the socialist group hopes that further progress can be made in this area, because it is important to finance innovation, but it must be real. finally, a chapter was devoted to whistleblowers, calling for a specific framework to ensure effective protection of whistleblowers through a directive. as we saw last week, european legislation in this area is essential to protect those who discover illegal or unlawful behaviour and report it in the public interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it proposes measures to establish a fairer and more transparent corporate tax system in the european union, including a public register of the beneficial owners of companies, a european blacklist of tax havens, sanctions against non-cooperative tax jurisdictions, action against the abuse of patent box schemes, a code of conduct for banks and tax advisers, a withholding tax on profits leaving the european union and a common consolidated corporate tax base. in the light of the revelations of the luxleaks and panama papers cases, it seems to me essential that the european union develops a common approach to the control of the union's external tax policies, with a consolidated tax base for corporate taxes and a european register of beneficial owners of companies. i am also pleased to note that the report does not forget the plight of whistleblowers. the resolution calls on the european commission to present a legislative proposal to protect whistleblowers. future legislation should include a single european framework based on the approximation and strengthening of national legislation.
in writing. ‒ the n-va has decided not to support this report. there are good elements in the report, such as the call for the rapid implementation of the oecd recommendations to combat base erosion and profit shifting (beps) and proposals to improve the effectiveness of the council working party on codes of conduct for corporate taxation. the n-va supports this call for more correct fiscal rules. however, parliament is wrong, for example, in its call for a minimum effective tax and the abolition of unanimity in the council working party. the distinction between (illegal) tax evasion and (legal) tax avoidance is also too narrow. the n-va is also not in favour of the creation of a land register, as called for in this report.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this second report by the taxe special committee following the luxleaks. we must strengthen our fight against tax dumping and force multinationals to take their fair share of the tax contribution. the aim of this report was to draw up a series of recommendations aimed at ensuring fairer and clearer taxation for businesses. the proposals include the establishment of a european register of beneficial owners of companies or sanctions against multinationals involved in tax evasion. a major measure of the report is also the establishment of a blacklist of tax havens. today we have 28 different lists. this puts the european union and the member states in a weak position. we must therefore agree on a common list to guarantee a single policy towards these third countries. the pressure will be much greater if the 28 come together rather than each one doing his shopping in a tax haven. the fight against tax fraud and evasion is not over.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendations to make corporate taxation fairer and clearer. at a time when citizens are constantly having to make efforts and checks are being intensified on the less privileged, recent revelations have brought to light an unacceptable, shocking reality that can no longer be ignored. our recommendations include the establishment of a european register of beneficial ownership of companies, a blacklist of tax havens, to eliminate disparities between states, and sanctions against tax jurisdictions that refuse to cooperate. in the same spirit, we are advocating the creation of a code of conduct for banks and tax advisers. the fight against tax evasion must be conducted at european level, but this cannot be done without the support and the will of the states. this is a step forward, but further efforts will be needed in the future to combat tax evasion and money laundering. without equating criminal fraud with legally permitted tax evasion through tax engineering, global work is essential to prevent these few trillion euros from escaping the european union each year.
in writing. ‒ i share parliament's regret that 13 member states do not have actual rules on tax-exempt dividend movements to combat aggressive tax planning and that 13 member states have not carried out tests on beneficial owners when accepting applications for reduction or exemption from withholding tax. i also regret that to date 14 member states still do not have rules on controlled foreign companies to prevent aggressive tax planning and 25 member states do not have rules to deal with the different tax classification of a local company by another state; i also regret that to date no member state has called for a ban on aggressive tax planning structures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on tax rulings. business taxation needs to be fairer and more transparent. i see no problem with approving a feasibility study on a global register of financial goods. it is good to have a list of pros and cons, including risks, and this can't hurt. however, this should not lead to misuse of this data by the authorities (for example, if this would lead to an automatic wealth tax). the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution. the recent panama papers scandal has proven that new legislation is needed to counter tax avoidance. while some bigger corporations are able avoid taxes through base erosion and profit shifting, it is especially the smes that suffer from others’ tax evasion. again, this is an area where only cooperation will provide a solution. the resolution calls for adherence to the oecd agreements and stresses the fact that some countries are still not cooperating even though they are members. an automatic exchange of information between nations is an important step towards fairer taxation. when such nations do not cooperate, the relevant tools should be in place for the eu to take measures against such tax havens. when looking at new tools and measures, i feel that we should consider a wide variety of options in order to ensure effectiveness and efficiency in this area. however, when invoking them, it is important that privacy is safeguarded at all times. moreover, such measures need to be both attainable and realistic.
in writing. ‒ i supported this joint resolution which recalls the necessary synergy between the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020 and other eu innovation funds and programmes (european connectivity facility, digital single market, energy union, etc.). this should be done within a strategic planning framework that should contribute both to strengthening the single market and to delivering the 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that the european commission, but also the member states, pay particular attention to the combination of the structural and investment funds on the one hand, and the horizon 2020 framework programme on the other. and i would go even further and say that it is important that our institutions ensure adequate synergy between all the funds. of course, it is also important to ensure that these synergies do not interfere with the very nature of each fund. i believe that the european social fund must be mobilised on purely social issues, otherwise it will no longer be able to achieve its intended objective. it is by ensuring appropriate synergies between the funds that we will achieve better results for each of them.
in writing. - i voted for this text. i reiterate that the links between cohesion policy and other union policies and initiatives (horizon 2020, the connecting europe facility, rural development, the digital single market and the energy union) have been strengthened within the csf introduced by the common provisions regulation which, through all its instruments and objectives, including the urban agenda, the territorial agenda, investment in smes, or the smart growth and smart specialisation strategies, therefore contributes to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution. we do need synergies for innovation: the european structural and investment funds, horizon 2020 and other european innovation funds and eu programmes.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because an efficient use of the eu's resources is important to me, as is the horizon 2020 programme that is involved. i strongly believe that synergies should be made where possible. however, when looking for these one should always keep in mind the objectives of each individual programme, safeguarding their integrity. while both programmes have different goals, they have a complementary character. for example, i applaud the mentioning of the horizon 2020's seal of excellence and the potential of its use outside the programme. the lack of funding for horizon 2020 is also rightly pointed out. i can only welcome the focus on smes throughout the entire resolution, mentioning their important role and stressing that any unnecessary administrative burden should be avoided. the cosme program plays an important role herein. to conclude, when complementary aspects between both programmes that mutually strengthen each of them exist, i am in favour of this.
madam president, at a time when citizens have gone from europhilia to doubt, when they are going from doubt to disenchantment, when they are in danger of going from disenchantment to hatred - and it would be too late - it is time to get back on track by clearly reorienting european policies and prioritising: fighting social dumping, revising the directive on posting workers, ensuring decent social protection for all workers, relaunching the economic machine, aiming at fiscal harmonization and the fight against tax fraud - which represents 1 000 billion euros a year in europe - establishing a minimum wage in all member countries, or protecting whistleblowers by a specific directive - that was not on the agenda, that was not in this resolution. enough of the useless chatter, and let's move on to clear priorities, which meet the expectations of the citizens. that is why maria arena, hugues bayet and i, the three elected ps members, voted against this resolution, because today it is no longer enough, no longer here and no longer now, because the time is urgent.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the programme proposed by the commission for the year 2017. we are indeed in a period of doubt, the european project is being called into question! it is therefore high time to get back on track by clearly reorienting european policies and prioritising: combating social dumping, revising the directive on the posting of workers, ensuring decent social protection for all workers, relaunching the economic machine, aiming at tax harmonisation and the fight against tax fraud - which represents €1 000 billion a year in europe - establishing a minimum wage in all member states, or protecting whistleblowers through a specific directive. all these points are not in this programme, in this resolution. it is time to act and that is why i have decided to vote against.
in writing. the crises we have been facing since 2008 have forced us to rethink the european architecture. each challenge requires action, responsiveness, work, research and innovation. the 2017 programme must focus on concrete achievements if it is to be credible. it is clear that the commission's 10 priorities must be the backbone of this. if we take them seriously, they will help to lift up our economies and our societies. we must act where europe can make a difference for our citizens. this is one of the best ways of proving its effectiveness, of giving it a purpose, of building a bridge to our people. europe can make a difference in economic, social, migration, environmental, the fight against terrorism and so on. europe is particularly committed to the paris climate agreement. it will also have to consider whether to provide for additional measures to support the protection and restoration of forest ecosystems, and to eliminate deforestation from eu supply chains, as part of a new eu action plan on deforestation and forest degradation. the mid-term review of the financial framework is a key moment that we must seize.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's work programme for 2017. after a particularly challenging year for the european union and its enlargement, it is essential to give new impetus to the european project. among the priorities i will highlight the need to boost investment to create jobs, to deepen the internal market (especially as a result of brexit), to promote social equity, which is so lacking today, and to take on our common responsibilities on migration (including through the creation of a european agenda on migration). i am more reluctant to the idea of a free trade agreement between the european union and the united states, since the result of the current negotiations is very inadequate and, in my opinion, unfavourable to europe. finally, strengthening security is at the forefront of the tasks to be carried out and will also depend on the place the union intends to occupy on the international scene in the future. a final point i would like to make is the protection of whistleblowers through legislation which i wish to see.
in writing. ‒ this report outlines the direction the european commission will take in 2017. i voted against the request for president juncker to resign and against the notion that the euro had failed. i continue to believe in the objectives of the european union and believe that we can bring europe closer to its citizens. it was the perfect moment for the extremists and populists in the hemisphere to ask the most unrealistic questions. fortunately, the view that we must move forward with europe, albeit in an adapted form, prevailed. i voted for the resolution.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution on the strategic priorities of the commission work programme for the following reasons. first of all, it focuses on economic recovery and long-term competitiveness, stressing the importance of entrepreneurship, fair competition and innovation, acknowledging important trends such as the circular economy and the digitalisation of the economy. secondly, i strongly welcome the call on the eu commission to foster research and development, stressing the importance of sme access to finance. moreover, it calls for a fair environment for both consumers and smes, removing barriers preventing this. furthermore the resolution calls for an ambitious agenda with regard to external and eu neighbourhood policy. out of several points that are mentioned, i particularly support the call for using trade as a tool to foster growth, jobs and competitiveness. finally, i welcome the call for a completion of the economic and monetary union, agreeing that we need closer economic policy coordination. in doing so, i strongly agree that we need to ensure transparency and accountability at all times.
in writing. ‒ since whaling was declared illegal in 1986, japan has used a safeguard clause authorising the catch for scientific purposes to continue traditional whaling. however, japan cannot justify that this is actually for scientific purposes, which is enough evidence for the general assumption of abuse of the safeguard clause. japan's whaling program aims to kill 4,000 whales in 12 years, 332 of them in the 2015/16 season alone, 200 of them pregnant. the killing of endangered species is carried out using unmodern and painful methods. despite the fact that in 2014 the icc ordered japan to stop fishing and several diplomatic initiatives were launched by the eu and other countries worldwide to this end, japan continues to show no remorse. i have not agreed to the decision of parliament on the basis of these cruel facts. the report criticised whaling but ignored the free trade agreement with japan currently under discussion. i am firmly convinced that the continuing whaling and japan's narrow-minded attitude are sufficient reasons not to agree to the conclusion of a free trade agreement.
in writing. - i'm in favour of such a resolution. japan is violating international law and is going against a march 2014 ruling by the international court of justice (icj) that it is hunting whales in the name of scientific research. the union must condemn this illegal trade and show its support for animal and environmental organisations.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation strongly supported the resolution opposing the resumption of whaling in japan. whaling undermines the protection of biodiversity and marine ecosystems, is unnecessary for scientific research and is contrary to the standards of the international whaling commission and international law. the widespread international protest proves once again that there is no public support for the japanese activities. it is important to reaffirm our support for the maintenance of a global moratorium on commercial whaling and a ban on international commercial trade in whale products and to put an end to illegal 'scientific whaling'. the commission, the european external action service and the member states must do everything possible to reach a solution so that japan immediately stops its whaling activities. the nva is convinced that eu trade policy should provide an incentive for the trading partner to improve animal welfare and environmental protection, among other things. the n-va therefore believes that active pressure should be put on japan during the ongoing negotiations on the eu-japan free trade agreement to stop the atrocious practices and protect the iconic animal, the whale.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which urges japan to cease its whaling activities. i strongly support the maintenance of the international moratorium on commercial whaling and the prohibition of international trade in products derived from this animal. i believe it is essential to designate large areas of the sea and ocean as sanctuaries where all whaling would be banned for an indefinite period. i sincerely hope that japan will reverse its decision to hunt a total of almost 4000 whales over a period of 12 years and that it will honour its international commitments to protect marine mammals.
in writing. a moratorium on commercial whaling has been in effect since 1986 by the international whaling commission. despite this ban, japan continues to practice whaling under the guise of scientific reasons. it is therefore necessary to emphasize the illegal and unjustified nature of this hunt. i therefore welcome the adoption of this resolution which seeks to denounce these activities and to call on japan to respect its international commitments. the resolution also provides an opportunity for the union to reiterate its strong support for the international moratorium on commercial whaling. i am glad that the union can speak with one voice and thus increase its influence in order to put an end to this hunt and to encourage all parties to respect their obligations under international law.
in writing. - i voted for a request to ban japanese whaling. this country is flouting the international moratorium on commercial whaling, which was imposed by the international whaling commission, and it is doing so in an unjustifiable way, under false pretenses. the protection of such valuable and exceptional marine mammals as whales is a matter of common sense. if not, i believe that japan's continued whaling activities constitute an additional reason for refusing to give its consent to the conclusion of the free trade agreement between the european union and japan.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text: we call on japan to stop all whaling activities.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution wholeheartedly. it calls on japan to stop whaling completely. the commission is asked to urge japan to respect its international obligations regarding the protection of marine mammals.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this objection to the commission's decision to grant the eu guarantee to the eib for financing operations in belarus. the eu has not met the main expectations in terms of human rights in recent months and the general elections scheduled for 11 september will be a decisive test in this respect. it is therefore premature to grant the union guarantee at this stage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because i believe it is inappropriate and premature to grant the eu guarantee at this stage. i believe that before granting this guarantee to belarus, it is essential to wait for the results of the elections on 11 september 2016. these elections may provide belarus with an opportunity to demonstrate its willingness to end its tradition of electoral fraud. it will also be possible to assess the real willingness of the belarusian authorities to reconcile with their citizens and to enter into a constructive dialogue with the union. our arguments were not convincing and our objection was rejected in plenary. i'm sorry about that.
in writing. belarus has many shortcomings in respect of the rule of law, democracy and human rights, including freedom of expression, assembly and association, electoral rights, the death penalty and the fight against torture and ill-treatment, the rights of persons with disabilities and the fight against domestic violence. it is therefore high time that the belarusian authorities introduced a moratorium on the death penalty as a first step towards its complete abolition. the upcoming parliamentary elections on 11 september 2016 represent a new opportunity for belarus to put an end to its undemocratic practices. the resolution we have just voted on is appropriate to the current situation in belarus, as it takes into account the elections of 11 september 2016 before assessing the possibility of a new delegated act on the union guarantee to the eib.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to abstain on the objection concerning the european union guarantee to the european investment bank in the event of losses resulting from operations in favour of belarus. if belarus needs investment in infrastructure, i can only regret the very little improvement in the human rights situation.
in writing. ‒ we object to the commission's delegated decision, as we consider that it does not take due account of all the elements concerning respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy in belarus.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution b8-0869/2016 by the efdd. but i voted in favour of motion for a resolution b8-0870/2016 because the human rights situation in belarus has hardly improved since the decision to lift the sanctions. the belarusian authorities continue to ignore the political and civil rights of former political prisoners. freedom of assembly and association is still not guaranteed. the death penalty has still not been abolished, etc. the european parliament therefore considers that it would be premature and unwise to provide an eu guarantee at this stage. it therefore objects to the commission's delegated decision.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria for the method for establishing the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities.
in writing. i voted against this draft resolution and therefore in favour of the implementation of the delegated regulation which strengthens the commission's power with regard to the method of minimum capital requirements and eligible liabilities. the european directive 2014/59/eu aims to provide public authorities with new powers and tools to better prevent and manage banking crises within the european union. its objective is to establish a regime that provides the authorities with a credible set of instruments enabling them to intervene early and quickly enough in an unsound or failing institution in order to ensure the continuity of its critical financial and economic functions. the confidence between em and the credibility of the internal market in services had to be avoided at all costs. the shareholders are therefore the first to suffer losses. the creditor shall bear them provided that he does not incur losses greater than those which he would have incurred if the institution had been wound up under normal insolvency proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu with regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria for the method for establishing the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities. i would like to make this objection to ensure that the directive is consistent with the directive. it is essential to maintain in the regulation an assessment to determine whether the burden-sharing requirements of article 44 of the directive could be met in the case of systemically important institutions.
in writing. ‒ we object to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria for the method for establishing the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the green group's proposed objection to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria for the method for setting the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities.
i think that anyone who reads the european strategy of 2003 will find it difficult to identify with the optimistic analysis of that time. europe has never been so prosperous, safe and free: that's literally what it sounded like in the preface in 2003. the dramatic aftermath of the arab spring in the south, the russian aggression in the east, the bloody conflicts in africa, the terror in our own cities: it all shows that that optimism has faded and the security environment has changed. so we did need a new strategy. in this new strategy you are taking a pragmatic approach to realism, giving priority to our vital interests of prosperity and security. i think that's the great merit. moreover, you have not only focused on the threats, but also on the opportunities that the eu can seize. one question , please . in the last chapter you propose that member states may contribute to the implementation of positions agreed in the council by means of enhanced cooperation. can you tell us what files you had in mind before that?
mr president, mrs mogherini, the alde group is very pleased that you have tabled this new note. i do think that the world has changed completely since 2003 and that we absolutely need a new strategy to deal with these many challenges - and many colleagues have already listed them - to stay ahead. we agree with most of your note, although i must say that in some respects it is a little more ambitious and more europesque for me. i'm going to give you the examples. you just said: give me the priorities. for us, they are very clear. in your note you speak very often of crossborder crime and terrorism, and say that the challenges are too great for one european country. but nowhere do you advocate a single service to combat terrorism and crime. nowhere do you advocate a single european intelligence service. and that is precisely what we in the alde group would like to see. you also make a very strong case for enhanced defence cooperation. i think every intervention here today in the hemisphere has played into that defense union. but there is a difference in this parliament too: we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that.
i also welcome the report by the quartet. the problem with any debate and conversation about the middle east peace process is that it very often falls into positions pro-palestinian, anti-israeli, or vice versa. but a war of position has never led to a solution. my party also believes in a two-state solution. and yes, to make such a solution viable, both sides will have to leave their trenches. it is true, for example, that israel's settlement policy undermines the prospect of a two-state solution. the new construction plans in the west bank announced by israel yesterday do not help the peace process in any way. nor is there any continuing rivalry, violence, extremism and corruption on the palestinian side. many wonder if peace can ever come when both societies are so war-minded. the european union will continue to strive for lasting peace. i appreciate your efforts, mrs mogherini, to revive the peace talks and the peace process. anyone who sticks their neck out deserves all the support. but above all, we are counting on political courage and real leadership on both sides of the border to finally seize historic opportunities for lasting peace.
for the umpteenth time we are here in this plenary to speak about the conflict between israel and palestine. less than 24 hours before the report was published, the palestinians had carried out two terrorist attacks, and violence against civilians was also continuing on the israeli side. in response to the violence, the israeli government is promoting the construction of over 800 settlement homes. and yet, mrs mogherini, my group and i continue to believe in a two-state solution. that's why we're insisting on a negotiated settlement. yes, we believe that palestinian unity must come and that reconciliation is needed. and yes, we think israel should stop building illegal settlements. and yes, we believe that the palestinian anti-terrorist units can do even better and that security cooperation with israel is important. both sides say they want a two-state solution. we must continue to work for that solution as europe, under your expert leadership. we have to keep our heads. i would therefore like to stress that the quartet report is an important step forward. it identifies the threats to peace, the continuing violence, the settlements and the administration in gaza. and the quartet is also charting pathways to effective status negotiations. mrs. mogherini, i'm very concerned about one thing. the knesset will normally pass an ngo law next week, which will catalogue ngos that receive money from abroad and require them to make a statement. that will put a lot of pressure on aid workers and restrict freedom of expression. that's why i'm calling on you. i would ask you to insist on this and to express your concern to israel about the passing of this ngo law. can you also urge israel to transfer its powers to the palestinian authority in area c? finally, you can also insist on palestinian reconciliation based on the principles of the quartet. [the speaker will answer a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
blue-card answer. – of course i am quite aware of that, and of course it makes it even more difficult and more problematic. ms mogherini, this is yet another reason to talk about that with the israelis.
for the ecr group despite all efforts, 2015 was another very bleak year for human rights. in fact, press freedom dropped to an absolute low point. of course, we can not only win this battle, but we must also be able and dare to question ourselves. this report is limited to a summary of our actions. i'm missing out on the results or the gaps or the progress. this is not possible! how can we judge our instrumentation like that? we also need to be more consistent in our policies. i agree with the high representative: we cannot point the finger at third countries when we ourselves are not doing our job. in the basque country, i was investigating the situation of political prisoners with some colleagues. our report shows that there is still work to be done in the european union. we must also stop having two standards and two weights. we are pressing african capitals on issues such as human rights, respect for international rules and good governance. but with our allies, we're not doing enough of this. finally, we must also make better use of our position as the largest development donor. financial support must go to governments that take human rights to heart!
in writing. antoine deltour, the luxleaks whistleblower, appeared in court in luxembourg in may alongside raphaël halet for revealing the grand duchy's tax practices. the verdict will be delivered in june, as the prosecution is seeking 18 months in prison for the two men. the minister for finance, michel sapin, gave his support to the vosgian. in the end, it's the whistleblowers who get the prison time, not the fraudsters. worse, these convictions discourage them from making these disclosures, which are in the public interest. a definition of whistleblower must be drawn up, together with a general protection regime. the reporting person shall be able to report in good faith, freely and in the public interest, from within an organisation or from outside, serious breaches of the law or serious risks to public or private interests which he or she is not responsible for. he will have the benefit of anonymity and will be able to give the alert within the institution concerned or to the ombudsman, whose independence is enshrined in the constitution. all the financial scandals of recent years, and more recently the panama papers, must accelerate the establishment of this european definition.
to date, the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is the only international human rights treaty ratified by the european union as a whole. it is also important to note that all eu member states have signed the convention and 27 member states have ratified it. so there is a very strong political support for this treaty. the convention is considered the first human rights treaty of this century, the 21st century. the convention is legally binding and the european union must now take action to implement it fully. all legislation, both future and past, must be fully in line with the un convention and guarantee the full and equal participation of persons with disabilities in society, including at european level. the un convention does not provide new or additional rights for persons with disabilities, but it makes very explicit that persons with disabilities can also claim fundamental rights already enshrined in other conventions, such as the universal declaration of human rights, the convention on the rights of the child and other international conventions. i am really proud to have been able to involve a record number of committees in my report, ranging from the committees on transport and tourism, legal affairs and development to the committee on petitions. this proves that disability is not just a social issue but a theme that permeates all aspects of life. remember, this un convention is a human rights convention. so we are talking about the human rights of disabled people. in the spirit of the convention and the slogan of the disability movement, 'nothing about us without us', i wrote my report together with organisations of and for disabled people. i have had constructive discussions with the european disabled persons forum and its members from the outset. i therefore sincerely thank the organisations and individuals who have supported me. representatives of those organizations are sitting in the audience upstairs. i would like to applaud them very much for their tireless pursuit of their rights as persons with disabilities in our society [applause], a society that does not always take them into account and does not always understand the obstacles that persons with disabilities face every day. i would like to reiterate and emphasize that people with disabilities should not be treated as second-class citizens in europe. they should enjoy the same rights to live and work in the eu as citizens without restrictions. the european institutions must set the example. disabled employees should be supported so that they have equal access to work and occupation. citizens with disabilities should also have equal access to public information and events in the european parliament and other institutions. we cannot ask the member states to apply the convention if we do not apply it ourselves. i look forward to working with my colleagues here and in other institutions to ensure that the rights of people with disabilities are respected and taken seriously throughout europe.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank all colleagues and committees again for their valuable input in their areas of expertise, which allowed for a very concise and comprehensive report. i would also like to highlight the support from my colleagues at the disability intergroup and i am very glad that we have commissioner thyssen with us today making disability a priority at commissioner level, and i hope it stays that way. the involvement of people with disabilities was crucial during the whole process, and we should not forget that the convention puts new obligations on the eu. i can only reiterate that freedom of movement, especially for workers, is also a right for people with disabilities and this also includes full and equal access to the erasmus + programme. with regard to the exercise of political rights, this is just one example of where people with disabilities continue to be left out. changes must be made so that people with disabilities can fully exercise their right to vote and to stand as candidates during elections. again, i would like to mention the disability intergroup, who signed many amendments and were actively involved in the whole process of the report. this cross-party support from all eu countries is a significant indicator of how important the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities is everywhere, and not only in one or two areas or regions. madam president, i will do my utmost to make sure this remains not just a piece of paper, but can have a real impact on person with disabilities here at the european institutions and across europe. remember this is about human rights, not more not less. the report has shown once more that the rights of persons with disabilities are to be taken seriously and are not merely a minority issue.
in writing. this report, which i have approved, is an opportunity to recall that all disabled people have the right to live in a society where they have the same opportunities as other citizens to ensure their full integration and participation. the eu and the member states must take measures to ensure the implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities, the promotion of their autonomy, accessibility, employment and social integration. this is particularly necessary if austerity policies are to be brought to an end, the first victims of which are the most vulnerable. it is time to revive social investment. it is also time that respect for the rights of disabled people is addressed in the work of the european semester. improving the consideration of their rights also requires a permanent and structured dialogue with organisations representing disabled people. finally, i would like to stress the importance of informing not only about the rights but also about the talents of disabled people, who are a real asset to our society.
author. – madam president, here in europe when a baby is born, the parents are happy whatever the colour of the eyes or the hair. but in other places like malawi, this is not the case. there, white babies with white hair and red eyes are watched with great superstition. many parents believe it is a punishment from god. and these misconceptions, combined with the beliefs spread by wizards that certain body parts of albino people have magical powers, result in their being hunted like animals, and this in 2016. their bones are sold for usd 75 000 – can you imagine this! it is unacceptable that people with albinism are hunted and killed just because they are born with another colour. i hope that europe and the world do not close their eyes and look away, but react firmly to protect people with albinism and give them a normal life.
- a writer. it's only been february since we denounced the human rights situation in bahrain. then we called for an end to the torture of mohammed ramadan and other political prisoners. what's changed since then? the report of the bahraini ombudsman is clear. these inhuman practices continue unabated. meanwhile, prominent human rights activist nabeel rajab was arrested again. his crime? a few critical tweets. what is the government of bahrain hiding, i wonder? is she afraid that he might attend a meeting of the un human rights council in geneva and embarrass her there? recently, another human rights activist, zainab al-khawaja, fled abroad, fearing the same thing would happen to her. we can no longer be under the illusion that bahrain is on the road to reform when opposition voices are ruthlessly silenced. the kingdom may be an important partner of the eu in energy and security, but we are not going to compromise on human rights, are we? not in my name! i therefore ask the high representative and the member states to continue to express their concern about human rights violations, such as those against freedom of expression and freedom of association, both at bilateral and multilateral level. the ministerial meeting between the union and the cooperation council of the arab gulf states on 20 july provides an excellent opportunity to do so. and finally, let us work towards the establishment of an eu-bahrain working group on human rights.
- a writer. it is a remarkable situation: nobel prize winner and one of the heroes of our time, aung san suu kyi, won back democracy for her country myanmar in 2011, but also inherited the concentration camps of her predecessors and a population being ethnically cleansed that the world probably hears little or nothing about: the rohingya. this muslim minority has been stateless since 1982, the beginning of the military dictatorship in myanmar. many have fled to neighboring countries, but they are not welcome there either. these are people who are abused, who don't have access to health care and food. this is all happening on purpose and continuously. it is a violation of human rights and therefore it is our business as well. we must urge the government of myanmar to stop insisting on its own version of apartheid. the edeo should continue to raise the situation of the rohingya at the highest possible political level with myanmar and other asean countries. in addition, the eu should provide continued support to the un refugee agency to support the situation of refugees in the region.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, a little over a year ago, you were already being addressed in this house about the dire situation of the rohingya in south-east asia, and in particular in burma. it is our duty to continue to denounce the ordeal endured by about one million rohingya, of whom nearly 100,000 are stuck in camps for displaced persons. a un representative was in burma recently, and she did not notice any progress under the new pro-democracy government that now rules burma. the un has published a report very critical of burma, which reports on the various persecutions that the rohingya continue to suffer. it is high time that the countries of south-east asia unite to improve the living conditions of the ethnic group and finally recognize their true status. the fact is that burma still does not recognise them as nationals, and they have no citizenship. finally, it is our duty to put pressure on the burmese government to respect their rights. i also support mr panzeri's initiative to draw up a memorandum on the displaced persons problem between thailand and burma.
in writing. ‒ at the 71st session of the un general assembly this year, parliament adopted recommendations for the general assembly, which i also endorsed. the content of the report covers peace and security, counter-terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, development, climate change, human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the reform of the united nations system is also discussed. the work of the eu institutions and the un should be further strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which contains a recommendation for the attention of the council in the context of the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. this recommendation addresses parliament's priorities in the areas of peace and security, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation and disarmament, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law and development.
in writing. ‒ the n-va is pleased that the european parliament, after a one-year break, has resumed work on a report for the forthcoming session of the united nations general assembly (unga). after all, global challenges such as terrorism and climate change require global solutions. as the principal funder of the un, it is the duty and the right of the european union to add the words 'international community'. the n-va, however, considers that the report lacks focus in certain paragraphs. the commission considers that the request to the un to take an active part in the debate on the term 'climate refugee', including a possible legal definition of it in international law, is unrealistic. the n-va is also sceptical about the establishment of an international tax body within the un system. taxation policy is a matter for national competence. the nva delegation therefore abstained on the vote on this report.
in writing. i welcome this proposal from parliament to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly: in my view it contains important recommendations on peace and security, the fight against terrorism, non-proliferation, migration, human rights, democracy and the rule of law. that said, i think that parliament has missed an opportunity to go even further, particularly on the union's place in the united nations system. the european union is a global organisation, and it is not just a european union, but a global community of nations. it is regrettable that no reference was made to the situation in ukraine and to the other frozen conflicts: parliament should not be afraid to speak out against the violation of international law by third countries. finally, i hope that the recommendations in this proposal concerning the election of the secretary-general will be taken into account. in my view, geographical and gender criteria must guide the representatives of the general assembly so that the appointment of the new secretary is consistent with the principles that both the united nations and the union stand for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation to the council on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly, to encourage the strengthening of security in the union at a time when it appears particularly fragile. effective cooperation between the european union and the united nations is essential to develop new strategies for security, peacekeeping and crisis management. as such, the fight against terrorism is a priority, and our eyes are obviously on syria and the middle east, where we must encourage multilateral talks and protect civilians as much as possible from the ravages of conflict. we will also continue to monitor the conduct of elections worldwide, in the interests of transparency and democracy throughout the un system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. we must actively work to ensure that all parties directly or indirectly involved in armed conflict and their organisations fully respect their international obligations and the norms of public international law and advocate peaceful and diplomatic solutions to conflicts of all types, and ensure that this approach also includes the obligation to ensure access to humanitarian assistance for those in need. we must also continue to support multilateral efforts to find lasting political and peaceful solutions to the ongoing conflicts in the middle east and north africa, and continue to support the work of the un special envoy for syria, the special representative and head of the un support mission in libya, the special envoy of the un secretary-general for yemen, the un special coordinator for the middle east peace process and the special representative of the un secretary-general for western sahara. we must call on the international community to continue its humanitarian, financial and political assistance to deal with the humanitarian crisis, to work for an immediate end to the violence and to condemn unilateral and uncoordinated actions in crisis areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which sets out parliament's position on the opening of the 71st united nations general assembly. the eu should play a more proactive role in the work of the united nations on global solutions, peace, security, development, human rights, democracy and an international order based on the principles of the rule of law. one focus is certainly to increase efforts to counter the recruitment of young jihadis and to combat terrorist propaganda on social media platforms, but also through networks of radicalized hate preachers.
in writing. ‒ the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities entered into force in 2010 and is the first international human rights treaty to be ratified by the eu as a whole. the convention covers a wide range of rights, covering all areas of life, some of which are outside the eu's remit. member states are therefore obliged to implement the un convention accordingly at all levels, including regional and national levels. the report is addressed to the eu institutions, which are expected to take a leading role in the implementation of the convention. the convention is a major step forward in the fight against discrimination, which is why i have agreed to the report.
in writing. ‒ this report, which i have approved, is an opportunity to recall that all people with disabilities have the right to live in a society where they have the same opportunities as other citizens to ensure their full integration and participation. the eu and the member states must take measures to ensure the implementation of the rights of persons with disabilities, the promotion of their autonomy, accessibility, employment and social integration. this is particularly necessary if austerity policies are to be brought to an end, the first victims of which are the most vulnerable. it is time to revive social investment. it is also time that respect for the rights of disabled people is addressed in the work of the european semester. improving the consideration of their rights also requires a permanent and structured dialogue with organisations representing disabled people. finally, i would like to stress the importance of informing not only about the rights but also about the talents of disabled people, who are a real asset to our society.
in writing. an estimated 80 million people in the union have some degree of disability, more than half of whom are women. by acceding to the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, the eu has committed itself to reporting on a regular basis on the progress it is making towards the full integration of disabled people into our society. the report of the parliament lists the forms of discrimination which people with disabilities still face. recommendations are also made to facilitate the better integration of disabled people. people with disabilities should have the same rights as all other citizens. it is therefore evident that more efforts are being made to ensure tailored and inclusive education, to ensure the free movement of people with disabilities in europe consistently, to strengthen the implementation of eu legislation on direct access to information and communication for people with disabilities and to ensure that ehealth and mobile health services are easy to use throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report was to assess the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the integration of disabled people is an important issue and the union must do everything possible to ensure its success. to do this, i would urge the european union to implement fully the recommendations of the committee on the rights of persons with disabilities and to allocate sufficient resources to this end. the report also contains a series of recommendations addressed to the european commission and the member states. in line with these recommendations, i voted in favour of this report and i ask the commission and the member states to ensure the necessary follow-up. this is a matter of respect for people with disabilities.
in writing. - i voted for the text. the aim of this report is first to focus on the issues highlighted in the concluding observations. it shall give priority to recommendations which fall within the union's competence and which could therefore present difficulties in implementation at national level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the eu was the first organisation to accede to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in december 2010. this is the first (and so far only) international human rights treaty that the eu as a whole has ratified. all 28 eu member states have signed the convention; twenty-five of them have ratified it, finland and ireland have not. at the time of writing, the netherlands is about to accede to the convention. the convention covers a wide range of rights, in all areas of life, some of which are outside the eu's competence. therefore, member states should implement the convention in a uniform manner at all levels, including regional and national levels. we believe that there is no hierarchy in human rights and that discrimination on the basis of disability should be addressed in the same way as discrimination on other grounds, including discrimination on more than one ground. this is particularly important for women and children with disabilities, the elderly and people in need of complex support, including those with intellectual and psychosocial disabilities.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. it involves an important international convention, the first one to which the eu was a signatory. it is important that the rights of persons with disabilities are protected and that they can be included in our society. it is important that reports such as this one safeguard this. this report points out some difficulties that need to be addressed with regard to the implementation of the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) and includes useful recommendations on potential improvements. furthermore, the report is complete and well-structured, including specific rights and obligations, as well as recommendations towards the eu institutions. finally, i welcome the request to systematically raise implementation of the crpd when dealing with third countries, where this is relevant and applicable. in sum, i can only applaud the eu’s continuous support for persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the adoption of the commission's draft regulation. the european parliament has voted to ban certain claims used for the sale of sugary drinks and caffeinated energy drinks.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation supports the objection to health claims on drinks containing caffeine, mainly energy drinks. these claims would include a statement on the product that it contributes to an increase in alertness and an improvement in concentration. our main motivation for objecting to this proposal is that it goes against the spirit of the health claims legislation: the court of first instance has held that the fact that a claim is authorised creates the impression that those products are healthy or promote health, which is difficult to defend in this case. another reason to support the objection is the high sugar content of such energy drinks and the fact that children and young people are in practice important consumers of these products. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. finally, the efsa opinion shows how difficult it is to establish thresholds for safe caffeine use in children and adolescents. it is important to note that the objection does not oppose the placing on the market of the products concerned, but the authorisation of a health claim for these products.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection because i believe that sugary drinks and caffeinated energy drinks should not be allowed to claim to promote alertness or concentration. such claims encourage excessive consumption of energy drinks and result in higher consumption of caffeine and sugar (a 250 ml can of energy drink can contain up to 27 g of sugar and 80 mg of caffeine) by children and adolescents, who are already the main consumers of energy drinks. studies indicate that 68 percent of teenagers and 18 percent of children regularly drink alcohol. energy drink consumption has risks in terms of obesity and medical complications in the short and long term. it is also thought to be linked to problems such as headaches, sleep problems and other behavioural problems in children and adolescents who regularly consume energy drinks.
in writing. it is commonly believed that caffeine makes people more alert and sharpens their concentration, but to conclude on this basis that coffee or caffeine has beneficial effects on health is neither recommended nor desirable. the granting of a health certificate for caffeine would thus give manufacturers of energy drinks, for example, a free hand to claim that their products are beneficial to health. a can of energy drink contains up to 27 mg of refined sugars and 80 mg of caffeine and is popular among young people. about 70 percent of youths regularly drink energy drinks, and with these, youths easily exceed the daily allowance. in a free society, citizens have the right to unhealthy love affairs. but excess is harmful and in the context of preventive health policy it is advisable to alert adults and young people to the health risks posed by the excessive consumption of certain foods.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because it is a matter of public health, especially for our teenagers and children. it should be noted that 68 percent of teenagers and 18 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks. according to the world health organization, fast carbohydrates should be limited to 10 percent of the daily energy intake. the who believes that reducing intake to less than 5% a day would have additional health benefits. i therefore oppose the adoption of the commission's draft regulation and ask the member states to consider introducing rules on the marketing of high-caffeine drinks or caffeinated foodstuffs to children and adolescents.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the adoption of the commission's draft regulation. we consider that it is not compatible with the objective and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006. this afternoon we are voting to ban certain claims used for the sale of sugary drinks and caffeinated energy drinks. we would like to see these advertisements and all the mentions on the packaging that target children and adolescents and promote them to gain concentration, performance or alertness disappear. 68% of adolescents and 18% of children regularly consume these drinks and the consequences of excessive consumption of these products by young people can be dangerous to their health.
in writing. ‒ i voted with great conviction in favour of this objection. if you know that 68% of teenagers and 18% of children drink energy drinks regularly, that there is insufficient information available to determine a safe level of caffeine consumption for children, and that 25% of teenagers who drink energy drinks drink three or more cans in a row, then you know that there is an urgent need for action.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, this is obviously a relevant question, and it is very good to consider it too. it is clear that the non-tariff barriers which have been set up and which are still being set up by certain member states continue to infringe the principle of the free movement of goods. beyond this problem, which is still important in the internal market as far as goods are concerned, i naturally welcome the commissioner's words, which are encouraging. i think we must move towards a better circulation of goods. i would like to draw attention to another related problem, because if we are faced with a problem in the internal market to make goods, whether foodstuffs or not, circulate better, we also have another problem, which concerns imports and the lack of controls on imports from third countries. i will take as an example the lighter used to light cigarettes by european smokers. 80% of lighters sold in the union do not comply with community rules. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. so this is clearly another problem, and if we are to solve it, it is obviously related to the one we are discussing today.
we are in the midst of the most important negotiations the european union has ever had in its history: the brexit negotiations. traditionally, we in this parliament seek a large majority across the various groups. the reason is that we are in a stronger position in these negotiations, we are in a stronger position vis-à-vis the commission, we are in a stronger position vis-à-vis the council. and what do we see now? that last week mr verhofstadt was suddenly appointed to coordinate these negotiations for parliament, appointed by the conference of presidents. i am surprised that there was no debate, no vote. this is happening! the commission has already made a number of proposals. but when i see that even the leader of the group calling itself the liberals and democrats is avoiding such a debate and such a vote, i ask that it be added to the agenda. i am also assuming that mr verhofstadt will be the first to take up this debate with this parliament.
i think the s&d group's question, put by mr pittella, is fully justified. what has happened in recent weeks in wallonia, in gosselies, in charleroi, is the emergence of mass unemployment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i do think we need a debate on this, especially since we know that caterpillar is a company that is making formal profits, that it is a company that is paying ever-higher dividends to its shareholders and that is really holding the employees hostage. i think that the s&d group's request deserves our full support.
a strong policy, both the european heating and cooling strategy and the proposal for a new energy market are essential to the realisation of our european energy union. we must remove the energy barriers between member states. what do we see today? that far too many regulations, but also literal physical boundaries, are an obstacle to an efficient energy market. it is regrettable that the report calls for brussels to determine the energy mix of the member states. it is up to the member states and the market to determine that, not the commission's dg energy. the major energy savings can be achieved in the heating and cooling sector. i am therefore very satisfied with this strategy. we must first of all focus on increasing efficiency: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, including the reduction of energy consumption through technological applications, but also the reuse of heat from industrial processes.
madam president, when we talk about the european parliament, which should not be a union, i would like to say that, despite the incessant demands of the national unions, but also of the european union, the commission decided in 2015 to abandon the revision of the maternity leave directive on the grounds that this directive was not modern and did not meet the requirements of a new world in terms of work-life balance. today, this report - and i would particularly like to thank both co-rapporteurs - seems to me to be complete, balanced and up-to-date. it proposes a legislative approach to parental leave maternity, paternity and parental leave. if that is not modern about the new distribution of roles, what is more modern? it offers a "children's guarantee" for children who do not have a care structure, for the most disadvantaged children. here too, the vicious circle of poverty must be broken. finally, this report also proposes to include this as a fundamental right in the pillar of social rights. i think it is a very modern report and i thank the co-rapporteurs.
madam president, by deciding to close its headquarters in gosselies, belgium, caterpillar is causing a social earthquake: more than 2 000 direct jobs, more than 6 000 if we count the subcontractors who depend on it directly. this decision is all the more unacceptable because it is taken in complete disregard of the employees and the political authorities, both local, regional and national. by 2013, caterpillar had already cut 1,200 jobs. the employees and their trade union organisation have shown a great responsibility in saving the site's activity by making many concessions. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. this disaster requires a rapid response in terms of support for the employees, but not only. an ambitious industrial policy and a revival of investment are urgently needed.
the g20 leaders' communiqué says that the world economy is recovering. although you can read between the lines that there is some doubt about that. at the same time, there are calls for more public investment, and when i read the weekend papers, it says: finally, the austerity policy has failed. it's time to try something else. that was also the line taken by the six southern european countries who had coffee with mr tsipras in athens on friday. with all due respect, the truth has its rights. global debt has not decreased since 2008. on the contrary, debts have increased in the case of firms, banks, households and certainly also in the case of public authorities. the total debt in the world is currently 200 trillion euros. that's more than three times the total global economy. so please don't let us fool around. more investment is fine, but then we'll have to save first to make that investment possible.
madam president, commissioner, even the g20 is moving a little further away from the dogma of austerity and is calling for public investment to boost growth. europe is in dire need of public investment, which has not been this low for decades, even with historically low interest rates. i think this is an important fight, because public investment is a guarantee of quality jobs and social progress for all, but it is also an indispensable support for the real economy. it is also sometimes a palliative to flight, or even to cowardly desertion from the private sector. the latest example is the brutal stock market layoffs at caterpillar in gosselies, belgium, where over 5,000 jobs were lost in a matter of minutes. there's nothing economic about it, it's just a few thousand families being sacrificed to fill the pockets of a few wealthy people with hefty dividends. in addition, for the past 15 years caterpillar has been depriving the belgian public revenue of several million euros by repatriating its profits to switzerland. the g20 also calls for effective action against tax havens. caterpillar has thus become a symbol of what is wrong with europe, and if europe is not able to move urgently towards greater social and fiscal justice, its citizens will definitely turn their backs on it, and i think they will be right.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, as the commissioner rightly said, it is now a year since the volkswagen scandal broke, and we were all completely shocked. we were shocked because of the behaviour of one of the largest and most epic, iconic european companies, trying to increase their own profits at the expense of planet and people. but we were equally shocked because it was not our european institutions or our many type approval authorities or market surveillance bodies that discovered this fraud, but it had been discovered in the states. so rightly we decided to install a committee of inquiry committee in the european parliament – it is the first committee of inquiry for more than 10 years – looking at the maladministration, but also making sure that we get the truth above the waterline. this emis committee should also rebuild the trust in the european legislation but also in our european products. we are halfway now, and we discovered that it is not only volkswagen, but many other companies that overstretched loopholes – the legal loopholes – by switching off emission control under a broad range of operational conditions, with the result that after 10 years we have now more emissions and our legal system is being violated. an average diesel car today emits 4 to 5 times more. of course, the future of rde will solve part of the problem but, madam commissioner, we were very happy with your statements yesterday. we have to take into account that we also have to readjust the situation as it is today. cars with illegal defeat strategies are entering our markets daily, letting them emit too much, and that will cause extra pollution for the years to come. in the next month we will focus on the member states, and that will equally be very important. as the chair of the committee, i sincerely hope that all of us, together with the commission, with the member states, but especially in the emis committee, can overcome differences between the political groups and stand as one to solve this problem.
as vice-chairman of this committee of inquiry, i fully support the interim report. although it is too early to draw any definitive conclusions, we can already make some important findings. we have clean cars in the lab, but not on the road. the relevant legislation is therefore missing its purpose, and that was clear to many of those involved. the question of one million is why no more adequate and speedy action was taken to remedy the manifest problems, to enforce the rules and to protect public health. there is a real implementation gap, with the reality far removed from what is technically possible. all the technology is there to meet euro 6 nox standards for diesel today, also in real driving conditions and without negative impact on co2 emissions. although european legislation prohibits the use of fraudulent software, not all loopholes seem to be closed. for example, emission control systems are sometimes unlawfully switched off and it is unclear, for example, at what temperature switching off is or is not permitted. we must continue to work towards a strong final report in the interests of public health, the environment and consumer confidence. we will continue to ask critical questions with these priorities: i think that the commission should be able to do this, and i think that we should be able to do it, and i think that we should be able to do it, and i think that we should be able to do it, and i think that we should be able to do it.
we are indeed halfway through the term of this committee of inquiry and i think, ladies and gentlemen, and this has just been illustrated here, that we have a very good idea of what went wrong, how that fraudulent software scandal could have happened and above all what we must do now to avoid it happening again in the future. we heard very clearly yesterday at the hearing with you that the responsibility, commissioner, is a shared responsibility, and we knew that. no one, no body, not even this parliament, has been sufficiently aware that we have to be much more careful about the tricks of the software in diesel cars. and national governments in particular have failed in their duty of control, despite what was said here a few minutes ago by a few speakers. they are the ones responsible for implementing european legislation, which we have agreed with all 28 member states. the time has come, therefore - and we are counting on you, commissioner, to do so - to put that control itself under a kind of curate and to apply it in a somewhat stricter way, so that finally - and mr helmers has just forgotten that - a level playing field is created in the european union. that's the importance of that control. europe has always had, and still has today, not only the best, but also the most environmentally friendly cars on the market. we have to keep it that way. we must remain at the forefront of clean technology. today there are already diesels on the market, including in europe, which do indeed respect the 80 milligram limit. this is proof that our approach is right, that we are moving the car industry forward and that car manufacturers know that they do indeed - to use that word - need to go into higher gear. the car industry, or part of it, dear colleagues, we all know that, has cheated us all, has cheated the consumer. and now we must - and we must play an important role in this with our report and with our committee - press for that confidence to be restored quickly. that can only be done with ambition and with complete transparency. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. two things: first and foremost, by putting everything on the table, all the information. the commissioner said yesterday of a number of documents which are supposedly secret or which would not be brought to the table: i'll bring the papers. full transparency. and secondly, mr president, by ensuring that we can adopt the legislative proposals, type approval among others, and the subsequent proposals on real driving emissions, because we have to take further steps, as soon as possible, hopefully in quick agreement with the council, so that they can become legislation.
in writing. ‒ in view of the challenges faced by many regions in europe in the context of globalisation, which is exacerbating international competition and bringing with it an unsustainable burden of closures and relocations, i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which supports not only smart specialisation strategies (sri-si) but also other good practices such as the promotion of clusters and better synergies between funds and available tools. with the esi funds being the main instrument of eu investment policy with a budget of €454 billion for the period 2014-2020, it is essential that we ensure that the part of the esi funds allocated to cohesion policy is used as intelligently and specifically as possible. it is essential to enable regions to specialise in sectors with a future and high growth rates which best suit them in view of their specific strengths, their capacities and also the skills present in their territories, thus allowing the creation of a sustainable economic fabric and above all the direct and indirect employment they so badly need.
in writing. this report is relevant because it provides lessons to be learned from the gradual implementation at regional level of the research and innovation strategies for intelligent specialisation (sri-si). we will only remain globally competitive if we create the conditions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, which presupposes improving our capacity to innovate. to achieve this, the sri-si must be designed with a strong governance system, based on a swoft analysis (strengths, weaknesses, prospects), monitored and include measures to stimulate investment. only in this way will europe be able to claim european know-how which will enable it to increase its competitiveness, to renew its skills, to create jobs, in short to continue to exist at world level. in this context, i would like to highlight the essential role played by the smart specialisation platform (the 's3 platform') in disseminating information, methods, skills and advice to policy-making authorities at all levels of government and in the context of transnational cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (sri-si). the development of research and innovation for smart specialisation should be encouraged, as these should increase european economic competitiveness and create more quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ isr-is are a valuable tool to bridge the innovation gap and to boost employment and growth in europe. at present, there is still room for improvement in the development of strategies. the authorities should endeavour to pay particular attention to the monitoring and review of strategies in order to maximise the results achieved and to maximise interregional cooperation in order to develop ambitious projects and create added value for the economy. simplification and coordination of existing programmes are also essential to help ensure successful implementation of the strategies in the years ahead.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the role of research and innovation strategies. europe is devoting financial resources to promoting innovation as a driver of growth in employment and investment in the future of eu industrial policy. i voted in favour of this report because in these times of economic, financial and social crisis the eu must make extra efforts to create smart, sustainable and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ since its launch some 25 years ago, the etz (interreg) programme has become one of the most important instruments for territorial cohesion. a number of programmes with high european added value and a particular impact on europe's border regions have already been supported under this programme. this has created added value in key sectors such as networking, innovation and knowledge, culture and education. crossborder cooperation is a key instrument for the development of border regions. i am particularly pleased, as a resident and representative of a border region, to support these measures which are intended to help improve territorial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this own-initiative report which highlights the added value of european territorial cooperation, particularly in areas such as environmental protection and mobility. territorial cooperation has also enabled a wide range of collaborations between cities, thus improving many regional and local policies. the report calls in particular on the member states to make greater use of crossborder cooperation programmes. it stresses the importance of creating cross-border innovation policy approaches such as joint research and mobility programmes. it also stressed the need to simplify the implementation of territorial cooperation programmes.
in writing. territorial cooperation benefits all the member states. with a budget of €10.1 billion, it is essential as an instrument of cohesion at european level. to improve its efficiency and contribute to the implementation of the 2020 strategy, it was necessary to: (i) bring together all cooperation programmes around broad themes; and (ii) allocate funds to more strategic crossborder development priorities. this strategy has resulted in the emergence of good practices in areas as diverse as connectivity, mobility and accessibility of services at regional level, knowledge transfer, the development of innovation and therefore the development of the competitiveness of smes, the enhancement of regional brand image, the response to environmental challenges, the improvement of risk management, the response to disasters, etc. it is absolutely essential to preserve territorial cooperation as a vehicle for european integration. in the context of post-2020 cohesion, we need to focus on strengthening its innovative dimension and fostering transnational and transregional public-private partnerships, which presupposes harmonisation of administrative procedures and legal provisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for a strengthening of territorial cooperation as it aims to reduce disparities and promote a harmonious economic, social and cultural development of the union as a whole. it is necessary to give territorial cooperation a more specific role in the context of post-2020 cohesion and to significantly increase its budget.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. best practices have clear added value: joint preparation of a proposal for the inclusion of the german-czech mining region on the unesco world heritage list (germany (saxony) - czech republic); development of 'green' tourism activities to preserve the outstanding natural heritage of the region (germany/bavaria-austria); development of local strategies based on the results of specific programme projects (norway, sweden, denmark), ramsar eco natour project, creation of recreational spaces for urban cities in vienna and bratislava and improvement of local awareness and regional cooperation on climate change and biodiversity protection (austria, slovakia), etc.
in writing. ‒ around 38% of the european population lives in a border region. the eu is facing a serious economic, financial and social crisis, which is hampering women in these regions on all fronts. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we must strive for greater coordination, synergy and complementarity between crossborder and transnational dossiers. some of these regions also face major migration challenges. we call for the rapid implementation of interreg programmes to tackle, among other things, the refugee crisis and to ensure the exchange of good practice between local and regional authorities in border areas.
in writing. ‒ following revelations of rigged diesel car emissions tests, the european parliament has set up a committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive industry (emis). this emis committee examines whether the eu commission or national officials knew or at least suspected of the fraud before the illegal practice was discovered in the us and why, given the differences in the different types of measurement, they did not consciously or unconsciously take a more active approach to the problem. the committee's interim report has now been presented to parliament. i have agreed to the text because i fully support a full clarification of this matter and i want measures to prevent such practices at the expense of the consumer in the future. i therefore also support the call on the commission to cooperate transparently and loyally and to provide the additional information that is urgently needed.
in writing. ‒ following the scandal of falsified emissions tests of volkswagen cars in september 2015, the european parliament decided to set up a 45-member committee of inquiry into allegations of breaches of eu law in relation to emission measurement in the automotive sector to examine these alleged breaches. for obvious environmental and public health reasons, but also for simple reasons of fairness towards citizens and fair competition between manufacturers, we cannot accept the idea that economic actors feel entitled to falsify their emissions in view of possible inadequate controls or poor application of relevant eu law. convinced of the need to send a strong message and of the ability to improve the legislation in force to prevent this kind of behaviour in the future, i voted in favour of this mid-term report of the committee of inquiry which encourages the committee of inquiry to continue its work and fulfil its mandate and supports all actions and initiatives aimed at fulfilling it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is quite clear that, at mid-term, the parliamentary committee of inquiry into automobile emissions (set up following revelations of fraudulent schemes used by the volkswagen group to reduce polluting emissions during official car tests) needs more information from the european commission, in particular on emission measurements as well as details from the expert working group on vehicle typeapproval procedures. although cooperation with the european commission seems to have improved since this summer, it is essential that the inquiry committee can determine whether the european commission and national representatives suspected or were aware of the fraud before it was discovered in the united states. it is also necessary to understand why european and national authorities have not been more cautious about the divergence of emission measurements between type-approval tests and real driving. i therefore wholeheartedly support the call on the commission and the member states to facilitate the investigation in accordance with the principle of 'fair cooperation' as defined by the european rules.
in a letter to the european parliament, the commissioner said that the eu had a duty to ensure that the eu's citizens are protected against the dangers of unfair competition. on 17 december last year, parliament rightly gave the go-ahead for the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. the emis committee shall investigate infringements and mismanagement in the application of union law on emission measurements in the automotive sector. on the basis of the interim report, it is premature to attach conclusions to the mandate of this committee, but it is expected that the emis committee will present the necessary recommendations at the end of its work. in order to ensure that the committee can do its job properly, it is necessary that it has all the relevant information on the use and knowledge of tampering mechanisms in the automotive sector. it is therefore appropriate that all parties concerned provide the necessary technical and political support to the emis committee's investigation. this will enable us to improve the performance of our car industry in the future and at the same time ensure better air quality for all the inhabitants of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interim report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector, as it is essential that the commission is fully transparent on this issue. the fraud that has been uncovered only confirms the need to strengthen the systems for monitoring standards and to ensure that they are supervised by an independent body at european level. member states should also provide support, including the technical and political assistance needed to continue the work. this cheating is not only unacceptable, but it also comes at a cost. the cost of non-europe, because it is damaging the image of the automotive industry - especially the german industry - and it will be more difficult tomorrow to teach the lesson to the other major world powers who are reluctant to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. ‒ we call on the commission to provide rapid support and ensure full transparency by assisting the committee of inquiry in its work, in full respect of the principle of loyal cooperation, by providing all possible technical and political assistance, including by presenting the requested documents more promptly. we look forward to full cooperation from the current commissioners and directorates-general concerned as well as from the previously responsible persons. finally, we call on the member states, in full respect of the principle of loyal cooperation, to provide the committee of inquiry with the necessary technical and political assistance, in particular by enabling the commission to submit the required documents more rapidly and, if the communication of documents is subject to the approval of the member states, by speeding up their internal procedures in the field of the protection of the environment.
in writing. ‒ following the finding that not all new cars on the road meet the emission standards set out in the purchase brochure and/or manual, the european parliament set up a committee of inquiry to find out the true extent of the so-called emissions fraud in new cars. the decision setting up the committee of inquiry required it to draw up an interim report. the committee itself has already indicated that it is working hard to obtain information and hear those concerned, but that it is not yet able to draw any conclusions on the substance. i voted in favour of the committee continuing its work and asking the parties concerned (such as companies, witnesses and public authorities) to provide the necessary information to get a clear picture of the effort.
in writing. – the report clearly reflects on what has been done and where we are at this stage. to mention just a few, the committee has planned fact-finding missions, it has requested and taken into account numerous studies and it has gathered a significant amount of facts and information. in addition, a great number of involved stakeholders has been heard, such as the relevant current and former commissioners, representatives from the industry itself as well as consumer organisations, etc. as is stated in the resolution, it is too early to draw final conclusions. much more work is to be done. i therefore welcome its call to the european commission, the member states and all other competent authorities to ensure full transparency and exchange of information in order to support the committee in performing its duties.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the waiver of mr ujhelyi's immunity following the decision of the committee on legal affairs
in writing. i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of istván ujhelyi, which was requested by the central district court of pest (hungary) in criminal proceedings against istván ujhelyi for defamation in connection with statements made by him against a private individual in hungary. members of the european parliament shall be granted parliamentary immunity in order to protect them from any pressure in connection with opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties, in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7. the incriminating statements were made on 24 april 2014, when istván ujhelyi was not a member of the european parliament but a member of the hungarian national parliament. the immunity does not apply in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr ujhelyi's immunity, so that the hungarian judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, on the understanding that the facts in question (made during a hungarian television programme) have no direct link with mr ujhelyi's office as a member of the european parliament - who was then a member of the national parliament - and are not motivated by any intention to cause harm.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the waiver of immunity so that this person can explain himself before the justice of his country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request for the defence of mr crocetta's privileges and immunities, following the decision of the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the defence of the privileges and immunities of rosario crocetta, whose request was made by the former mep himself in the context of a criminal case pending before the third criminal chamber of the court of palermo, in which he is accused of having made defamatory statements, a conduct which is punishable by the italian criminal code. in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes expressed by them in the performance of their duties. it is clear that rosario crocetta's statements have a direct and obvious link with her parliamentary duties. parliamentary immunity therefore applies in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of defending the privileges and immunities of mr rosario crocetta, former mep, very active in the fight against organised crime, because the criminal proceedings pending in sicily over alleged defamatory remarks by mr crocetta are directly linked to his parliamentary duties. since this procedure is clearly linked to the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, it is necessary to request that his rights be defended, in strict compliance with the law.
in writing. we voted in favour of the immunity levy so that this person can explain himself before the justice of his country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr zorianopoulos' immunity following the unanimous decision of the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos, requested by the prosecutor at the greek supreme court following the issuance of allegedly illegal public domain occupation permits for the installation of terraces on pedestrian paths by sotirios zarianopoulos as a former member of the municipal council. since the case against sotirios zarianopoulos does not concern an opinion or vote delivered by the member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, the waiver of parliamentary immunity is hereby recognised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr sotirios zarianopoulos' immunity, so that the greek judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, on the understanding that the alleged facts (failure to comply with legal obligations in meetings and allegedly illegal authorisations to occupy public space for the purpose of installing terraces on pedestrian paths) have no direct connection with the office of mr zarianopoulos as an mep, who was then a member of the thessaloniki city council, and are not motivated by any intention to cause harm.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the waiver of immunity so that this person can explain himself before the justice of his country.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report on the proposal for a council decision authorising the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the union and china under certain provisions of gatt relating to the modification of concessions in the list of commitments of croatia in the context of its accession to the union.
in writing. on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia became the 28th member state of the european union. the european customs union was thus enlarged at the same time. however, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), in accordance with article xxiv:6 of gatt 1994, the european union was required to open negotiations with the people's republic of china on croatia's list of commitments with a view to agreeing on possible compensation. this is necessary if the adoption of the eu external tariff regime leads to an increase in duties beyond the level to which the acceding country has committed itself in the wto. the european parliament has given its approval to the eu-china agreement on the accession of croatia. the results were negotiated by the commission in agreement with the wto members holding negotiating rights and concern industrial products and agricultural quotas. it is with this in mind that i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the european union has enlarged its customs union. it was then obliged, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), to open negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights on the lists of one of the acceding countries in order to agree on compensation. like a large majority of meps, i consider the outcome of these negotiations with china and uruguay to be acceptable, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of these acts.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament followed the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs in the form of a letter; the commission considers that the draft agreement should be approved as it makes proportionate changes to the concessions and is in line with previous practices in the wto. it notes the commission reports that the compensation in question is proportionate and does not exceed the rights of china concerned by the withdrawal of concessions from croatia to china.
in writing. ‒ the accession of croatia to the union de facto extended the customs union. the people's republic of china is entitled to reestablish its former trade rights, after their slight erosion by the enlargement of the eu customs union with the accession of croatia to the eu. i voted for this recommendation.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report on the proposal for a council decision authorising the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the union and uruguay under certain provisions of gatt relating to the modification of concessions in the list of commitments of croatia in the context of its accession to the union.
in writing. on 1 july 2013, the republic of croatia became the 28th member state of the european union. the european customs union was thus enlarged at the same time. however, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the european union had to open negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay under article xxiv:6 of gatt 1994 concerning the list of commitments of croatia with a view to agreeing on possible compensation, since the adoption of the external tariff regime of the union had led to an increase in duties. the european parliament approved the eu-uruguay agreement on the accession of croatia, which i supported. the results were negotiated by the commission in agreement with the wto members holding negotiating rights and concern beef.
in writing. ‒ following the accession of croatia, the european union has enlarged its customs union. it was then obliged, under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), to open negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights on the lists of one of the acceding countries in order to agree on compensation. like a large majority of meps, i consider the outcome of these negotiations with china and uruguay to be acceptable, which is why i have decided to vote in favour of these acts.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the eastern republic of uruguay pursuant to article xxiv:6 and article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of concessions in the schedule of the republic of croatia in the course of its accession to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. the accession of the republic of croatia has enlarged the european union's customs union. the european union therefore had to open negotiations with the republic east of uruguay on the tariff schedule of croatia under the rules of the world trade organisation ('wto') in order to eventually agree on a compensatory arrangement, as the external tariff of the eu leads to higher tariffs. as the eu expands, it must adapt previously concluded treaties or agreements to the existing situation. in this case, the agreement with uruguay, because of the accession of croatia.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the appointment of mr lazarou to the court of auditors, following the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. i support the nomination of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou following his appointment by the council, approved by the european parliament, to the post of member of the court of auditors. both the academic background and the professional background - in the fields of public finance, management and control of management - of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou attest to his ability to exercise the duties of a member of the court of auditors with control. this is all the more so as mr lazaros stavrou lazarou already has experience as a member of the court of auditors following his first appointment by the council in 2010. i am convinced that mr lazaros stavrou's know-how, sense of responsibility and knowledge of the institution are an asset for the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors for a second term, in view of his experience and objectives. mr stavrou said he wanted to contribute to the implementation of the 2013-2017 strategy and the preparation and implementation of the 2018-2022 strategy, with particular emphasis on regular exchanges with the european parliament (through the cont committee) and on the reliability of the information on which the annual report was based.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the appointment of mr figuereido to the court of auditors.
in writing. i support the nomination of mr joão figueiredo, following his nomination by the council, approved by the european parliament, to the post of member of the court of auditors. mr joão figueiredo's academic and professional background is characterised by a specialisation in both law and public finance. joão figueiredo also has a high-quality international experience. all these factors suggest that mr joão figueiredo will exercise his duties as a member of the court of auditors with restraint.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the appointment of mr brincat to the court of auditors, following the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of mr leo brincat as a member of the court of auditors, following his hearing, and in view of his previous role as minister for sustainable development, environment and climate change in the maltese government, which acted inappropriately in relation to the panama papers revelations. in view of this liability, it is preferable, both for malta and for the european union, that the maltese prime minister should propose another candidate, an independent one, rather than a former minister. i hope that the negative vote in parliament today will encourage the council to withdraw its proposal and to put forward a new candidate for parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this recommendation, following up on the excellent work done by my colleagues in the inta committee. the amendments referred to in this text are essentially to bring the procedures applied in the field of statistics into line with eu law on the new system of delegated and implementing acts as established by the treaty of lisbon in two specific respects.
in writing. delegating implementing powers to the commission, under the control of committees of representatives of the member states in the framework of comitology , is justified for reasons of uniformity and has existed since the 1960s. however, the lisbon treaty introduced a major reform by distinguishing implementing acts from delegated acts, placing the european parliament on an equal footing with the council and the commission, thus increasing the powers of the european parliament in the executive sphere. parliament can now put pressure on the commission and the council by threatening to block a legislative decision in codecision or a budgetary decision. with the lisbon treaty, the legislator has the right to object on any grounds and the right to simply revoke the delegation or an individual act. this is a major instrument of pressure on the commission. for my part, and in the context of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, i support a delegation procedure which allows the legislator to concentrate on the essentials, provided that the competence delegated to the commission is properly framed and implemented in a completely transparent manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. informal negotiations were opened under the italian presidency, following the adoption of parliament's position in plenary and first reading on 12 march 2014, with a view to reaching an agreement at second reading in a timely manner. after several rounds of trilogues, the negotiations were suspended pending the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which provides, inter alia, for a horizontal solution for consulting member states' experts when preparing delegated acts. the adoption of the new interinstitutional agreement on better law-making in december 2015 thus enabled the parliament and council negotiating teams to reach an agreement on the regulation under consideration. the text of the agreement was submitted to the inta committee for approval on 21 april 2016 and was approved by a very large majority. in view of this result, the committee chairman recommended that parliament should vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation. the commission's proposal is to make institutional adjustments in the area of the european commission's trade policy. in the light of the changes resulting from the lisbon treaty, the commission was obliged to adapt the rules for the adoption of decisions on trade policy to the new system of delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ the legislative proposal amending the existing directive 2008/92/ec was published in november 2015 as part of the state of the energy union package. the aim of this proposal is to establish a common framework for the development, compilation and dissemination of comparable european statistics on natural gas and electricity prices for household and non-household final customers in the eu. the aim of this regulation is to make this voluntary nature compulsory in order to avoid problems in data collection, which have been reported by several member states. i agree with the commission's proposal to regulate the collection of both types of data by means of a legislative act. only in this way can the quality of the collection of electricity and natural gas prices in the household sector be guaranteed and the greatest possible transparency of the gas and electricity prices paid by industrial end-users be ensured. the markets must continue to be thoroughly covered and the price data must remain of high quality. this is best achieved by a community procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to establish a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of comparable european statistics on natural gas and electricity prices to residential and non-residential end-users in the union. the text proposes that member states collect data on natural gas and electricity prices and their sub-components (network costs, taxes, levies, charges and charges) and on consumption volumes. the collection of these data is currently based on a voluntary agreement, which sometimes makes it difficult to collect complete statistics that reflect the reality of costs within the union. as the increasing complexity of the internal energy market makes obtaining reliable and up-to-date data increasingly difficult and increasingly important, a legislative act covering the collection of both types of data will be beneficial.
in writing. the creation of an energy market must first be achieved by making available reliable statistics for all member states in order to be able to compare the price of gas and electricity charged to residential and non-residential end customers within the european union. this makes it possible, in particular, to monitor the evolution of the european market and to propose appropriate responses to this vital issue. until now, the transmission of statistics has been on a voluntary basis, but it is necessary to make it compulsory. this will ensure the continued reliability of the data collected in the future. this is a crucial element because after all, our whole society, our daily lives, depend on the supply of energy. access to gas or electricity is essential, especially for the competitiveness of our companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by mrs barbara kappel on gas and electricity prices because i refuse, for obvious ethical reasons and in the name of the values of humanism and democracy, to support any legislative work carried out under the auspices of a member of the extremist, anti-european and racist group europe of nations and freedoms.
in writing. ‒ the report also addresses the following important points. firstly, the commission proposal does not specify who will be the agent responsible for providing the price breakdown, a task which cannot be fulfilled by the suppliers. second, the provision of price information becomes mandatory for large non-residential customers. finally, it should be noted that the overall average share of transport and distribution costs can only be distinguished at the level of all residential and non-residential customers. the network usage burden components may only be indicated for the whole of the residential and non-residential customer sectors, excluding individual consumption bands.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution with regard to statistics on prices of natural gas and electricity in europe. it concerns an important proposal for a regulation on statistics on prices of natural gas and electricity in europe. this resolution aims at achieving more transparency for the consumers with regard to these prices, specifically aimed at the household sector and non-household consumers. in order to achieve this objective, an obligatory collection of data is needed. this should however not create additional burdens on the relevant authorities. therefore, the report that this resolution concerns, aims at making this transition possible and easier. it also gives specific recommendations on what still needs to be done. one important aspect is that it stresses the importance of protecting the confidentiality of sensitive information.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to strengthen the internal energy market. furthermore, efforts must be made to ensure that electricity can be freely routed to the places where it is most needed. the aim is to maximise the benefits of crossborder competition and to provide the right signals and incentives for meaningful investment. the report also calls for the full integration of renewable energy into the electricity system, ensuring that markets are equipped to do so and promoting the share of renewable energy in the electricity market in line with the share of conventional energy sources. i have agreed to the report because i believe that a coordinated approach is necessary with regard to adequate power generation and reliability standards. this may allow for greater cross-border coordination and cooperation and a harmonised approach to capacity mechanisms. i also believe that regional cooperation in the field of energy policy should be strengthened and that a uniform european framework for the promotion of renewable energies should be established.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights in particular the enormous potential of enhanced regional cooperation and the importance of coordinated long-term programming for the effective development of transport infrastructure and electricity markets in europe. the report also regrets that there are still major gaps in interconnection within and between some member states. the report underlines the growing share of renewable energy in the european union and stresses that full integration of renewable energy into the electricity market is essential. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources.
in writing. how do we ensure that europe's energy supply remains secure in the near future? and how do we ensure that energy becomes affordable and sustainable? in order to meet these challenges, this report rightly points to the need for strengthened european energy networks. the development of a well-functioning crossborder interconnection between member states and the development of the necessary back-up systems will guarantee the supply of electricity in europe. a stronger energy infrastructure in europe would increase our energy independence. the new structure of the energy market, which will be decentralised, would also lead to crossborder competition, which would result in price advantages for consumers due to the presence of several energy suppliers. at the same time, the growing supply of renewable energy sources, the integration of those renewable energy sources into the energy market and the development of smart grids and new technologies for distributed generation will also enable consumers to play a more active role as both consumers and producers of energy. in this way, the consumer producer will be able to participate in the price formation on both the demand and supply side of the electricity market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on a new organisation of the energy market to make it more integrated at european level. it is normal for member states to seek to guarantee the supply of electricity to meet demand in the medium and long term. but, like the majority of meps, i believe that these member states must guarantee this supply in the context of crossborder cooperation. i am also in favour of renewable energy support schemes which are adapted to national circumstances. we are well aware that the development of these renewable energies is a necessity for the planet and is a source of jobs and inclusive growth.
in writing. - i voted for the text. indeed, the challenges facing europe in the field of energy include the dependence on oil and gas imports, which has further increased in recent years, the lack of diversification, high energy prices characterised by state duties, the growing global demand for energy, security risks for producing and transit countries, the fight against climate change, the lack of progress in energy efficiency, the growing share of renewable energy, the integration and interconnection of energy markets and market distortions due to different aid schemes.
in writing. ‒ the completion of the european internal energy market is a demand of the liberals in the european parliament. in this report we encourage the european commission to take this into account. a european internal energy market would bring with it a greater supply of affordable and renewable energy sources. we need to integrate national markets more closely by developing interconnections. we also need to speed up the development of smart grids and new technologies for decentralised generation. i voted for this report to enable consumers to play a more active role as consumers and producers, and to encourage better demand side management. in a europe without internal frontiers, we should also be able to have an energy market without internal frontiers for the benefit of all eu citizens.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because it contributes to the plans of the european commission to create an eu-wide electricity market. this will be to the benefit of both companies and eu citizens. the eu’s energy market needs to become more interconnected and integrated. in order to achieve this, specific steps need to be taken. for example, i welcome the focus on decentralisation and an increased flexibility of the market. we need to empower consumers to become ‘prosumers’ of green energy, and also the future possibilities of battery storage offer a lot of opportunities to succeed in a transition to a more sustainable energy landscape in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the commission presented its first strategy to reduce the high energy consumption, in particular of fossil fuels, in the heating and cooling sector. this is one of the priorities of the energy union. heating and cooling is one of the most energy-intensive sectors in the eu, accounting for about 50% of the eu's energy consumption, and where renewables account for only 18% of the energy consumption, compared with 75% for fossil fuels. the strategy includes plans to increase the energy efficiency of buildings and to improve the connections between electricity systems and district heating networks. the aim is to significantly increase the use of renewable energy sources and to promote the reuse of waste heat and cold generated in industry. i welcome that approach. i also share the view that europe can only remain competitive if it invests in innovative and sustainable concepts in research and development, particularly in the energy sector. i also believe that there is still a great need for action on climate change and energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which first of all recalls that heating and cooling account for the largest share of demand in the european union. the report calls for specific long-term strategies based on renewable energy to be developed. it also called for energy efficiency standards to be strengthened and for the commission to provide appropriate co-financing for initiatives to renovate public buildings and multi-unit dwellings which are characterised by low energy efficiency. at the same time, member states are invited to phase out the use of old boilers in urban areas that generate low-level emissions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. half of the eu's final energy demand is still used for heating. 80 percent of that is used to heat or cool buildings. at the same time, our buildings emit 13 percent of all co2 emissions in europe. this is because the share of fossil fuels for cooling and heating buildings is still 75 percent. these are disturbing figures. bad grades like that have an advantage. if we act now, we can achieve enormous results in reducing co2 emissions in a very short time. firstly, by urgently carrying out the renovation and insulation of old buildings. insulation remains the fastest way to energy efficiency and well taken renovation and insulation projects are boosting our economy and employment. in addition, the share of renewable and recovered energy should be increased. too much heat is still lost to the atmosphere in industry. this energy can be captured and used to heat homes. i therefore support the proposals to support local authorities and private individuals through the existing structural and investment funds in the intelligent modernisation of the energy systems of public buildings, residential areas and private homes.
in writing. ‒ like most members of this house, i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the european union's strategy on heating and cooling. this strategy should, in particular, help to reduce the energy poverty that still affects many european citizens today. among the ideas supported i would mention the european parliament's desire to see renewable energies more integrated into neighbourhood networks. i welcome the statement by commissioner canete, who promises an initiative on access to finance. we'll have to follow up.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. solar radiation is an important source of heat which is not yet sufficiently exploited. one way to do this would be to use panels to heat water or photovoltaic cells to generate electricity. given the particularly high energy efficiency of reversible heat pumps and their great potential for heating and cooling, intensive research into new innovative solutions in this area is necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is very broad in its content. since 'heating and cooling' accounts for the majority of energy demand in the eu, it is important that we deal with it very purposefully and carefully. we call on national, local and european authorities to create a favourable environment for tenants and people living in multi-apartment buildings to enable them to benefit from self-production, renewable heating and cooling and energy efficiency measures. we also point out that energy from waste will continue to play an important role in the field of heating, as landfilling and the use of fossil fuels are often the alternative. many of the measures requested have already been implemented in flanders, but not yet in the rest of europe. flanders often leads in this area.
in writing. – a substantial part of the eu’s energy is used to heat and cool houses and buildings across the eu. therefore, if the eu wants to increase its energy-efficiency we will have to work on the infrastructures that provide these. i voted in favour of this resolution, because it recognises the importance of thermal renovation and the efficiency gains that it can bring. i welcome its specific recommendations with regard to the renovation and insulation of buildings, as well as the use of new technological solutions and renewables. finally, becoming more energy-efficient also means that we become less dependent on third countries for our energy supply, for example, with regard to our gas supply.
in writing. ‒ the thematic objective 'enhancing the competitiveness of smes' (table 3) is of the utmost importance for achieving the objectives of cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy. the introduction of thematic concentration in the 2014-2020 cohesion policy programming has created an effective tool to design operational programmes with an improved focus on investment priorities. the report provides an early assessment of this thematic core objective and the first reporting on the overall implementation of the strategy in the financial planning period 2014-2020, measuring what has been achieved so far and trying to draw conclusions for the future. smes are of paramount importance to the economy of the eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness. they form the backbone of our economy and create the most jobs in europe. i therefore support the creation of a wide range of measures and financial instruments to promote and strengthen the competitiveness of smes.
in writing. smes and start-ups form the bulk of our industrial fabric. they are essential for employment and competitiveness in all regions of the union. smes are the largest employer in europe. they represent more than 99% of enterprises (or 22 million enterprises in the union) and employ more than 100 million europeans. they are the engine of our economy and must be strong, competitive and innovative. access to finance is a prerequisite for this. the european investment fund (eif) responds to this demand by providing risk capital. starting a business and keeping it going is the best way to create jobs. europe will only get back on the path to growth if those who want to invest and create are given the means to do so. improve access to finance, help with flexibility, transparency, professionalisation, multiplication of financing needs and of course entrepreneurship.
in writing. ‒ smes account for 99% of all businesses and make a key contribution to the eu's economic growth by providing more than 100 million jobs, or two thirds of private sector jobs. i therefore voted in favour of this report which encourages the commission to integrate more closely the financing of the competitiveness of smes in the preparation of cohesion policy after 2020.
in writing. ‒ 23 million smes, representing 99% of all businesses in the eu, provide 100 million jobs or two thirds of all private sector jobs. they therefore make a fundamental contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, innovation and quality employment. moreover, they are a major driver of the green economy and job creation. the report on improving the competitiveness of smes provides for a very balanced approach to strengthening green smes and local markets, in particular through support for local smes. the report also highlights the importance of thematic concentration and its role in sustainable development, the quality dimension of job creation and the involvement of smes in the partnership principle, including specific organisations targeting eco-entrepreneurs. after some additions on the circular economy, the 'small business act' and youth entrepreneurship, and with a focus on green jobs and the green economy, the report meets many green requirements and i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted for this text. the common objective of investments under the esi funds is to support the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy of the european union for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. each esi fund supports 11 thematic objectives, and the third (hereinafter referred to as 'to 3') concerns 'improving the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, the agricultural sector (for the eafrd) and the fisheries and aquaculture sector (for the eafrd) ' and the corresponding investment priorities for the erdf. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are essential for employment and the competitiveness of the regions of the european union. for the period 2007-13, cohesion policy has made available €70 billion to support businesses, mainly smes. the objective is to double this amount (including through financial instruments) for the period 2014-2020. in the new programming period, investments in smes will be made in particular via the ot 3. however, it will be possible to invest in smes under other thematic objectives at the same time.
in writing. ‒ smes in europe are a key driver of the economy and a creator of jobs. i voted for this report to remind the european commission that it must pay more attention to the specific nature of smes in its legislative initiatives. there is a clear need for mechanisms that simplify the business environment and, with the help of refit, speed up the start-up process of new businesses. we must be able to strengthen the competitiveness of smes and we must be able to support more the use of esi funds. more and better supported smes are good for the economy, jobs and innovation.
in writing. – i voted in favour because the competitiveness of the eu’s smes is one of my top priorities. it reiterates that fact that smes are the backbone of the eu economy. this means that we need to facilitate and support them where needed. it recognises the biggest problems of today and proposes clear solutions that i can only support. one of those measures is to increase access to finance. this can be done by removing institutional and technical barriers. also, they should be better informed about alternative sources of funding. in addition, member states should ensure coherent and consistent investment policies. herein, transparency plays a very important role. i also agree that the european investment bank and the european investment fund are important actors. but overall, we need to keep in mind that we need to cut red tape and simplify legislation where possible. i believe that all-together, these measures and guidelines will result in more competitive smes, more jobs and a stronger economy.
in writing. ‒ in december 2013, the european council called on the commission to present an eu strategy for the alpine region (eusalp). the commission responded to this call in july 2015 by presenting the action plan for the strategy (the eu's fourth macro-regional strategy). the committee on regional development decided to draw up an own-initiative report on the basis of this action plan with a view to formulating recommendations for rapid and effective implementation. this report is now based on the principle that macro-regions are the framework for cooperation measures and for developing synergies between the various eu financial instruments. it also invites the participating member states to coordinate their national and regional actions with a view to contributing to the actions and objectives of the eusalp strategy. the aim of diversifying tourism is also supported, and the importance of improving transport and energy connections and of protecting and promoting biodiversity in the alpine region is emphasised. i support the promotion of innovation and new technologies in key sectors of the economy while preserving traditional forms of economic activity. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which calls on the competent authorities of the union, the member states and the regions concerned to harmonise, as far as possible, policies and funds to support the development of the alpine region. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. they call on the commission to encourage active cooperation between agriculture and other economic activities in protected areas in order to develop integrated tourism products. they also call on the commission to develop the labour market in the alpine region, to give priority to investment in digital infrastructure and, in environmental matters, to promote biodiversity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposal on the strategy for the alpine region because, as a macro-regional strategy, it can serve as a model and an inspiration for other alpine regions in the european union. this strategy contributes to strengthening the objective of environmental, territorial, social and economic cohesion.
in writing. i voted in favour of this text, following my political group. following an initiative by the alpine regions dating back to the end of 2011, the european council of december 2013 invited the commission to present a european union strategy for the alpine region (eusalp). the commission responded to this request by presenting the action plan for the strategy in july 2015. this fourth union macro-regional strategy can benefit from the experience gained from the european union strategy for the baltic sea region, the european union strategy for the danube region and the european union strategy for the adriatic and ionian region.
in writing. ‒ the eu also pays attention to the different areas within its territory that have specific needs. one is the alpine region, which extends over several countries. climate change is manifesting itself there more quickly than elsewhere, and increasingly this is leading to natural disasters such as avalanches and floods. this also leads to a more rapid depopulation. more investment is needed in equal and effective access to health care and to emergency and first aid services for the entire population of the region, especially in rural areas. public transport is also not everywhere at the level of the european average and so we are in favour of the development of new forms of local transport on demand, including smart traffic information, traffic management and telematics and multimodal transport. i voted for this report because all citizens in the eu should have the same rights, regardless of where they live.
in writing. ‒ the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) was established at the valletta migration summit in november 2015. in the face of irregular migration on an unprecedented scale, the trust fund was established to support the most affected african states, to bring stability to these regions and to promote eu-africa cooperation on issues such as migration management, security and development. the objective is to tackle the causes of destabilisation, displacement and irregular migration in the horn of africa, the sahel and the lake chad basin, and north africa. i support the view that one of the priorities of eu migration policy should be to tackle the root causes of migration. the trust fund shall contribute to the achievement of the long-term objectives in the beneficiary countries. it is about securing peace and bringing stability to these regions. in order to achieve these objectives, it is also necessary to systematically monitor and control the distribution of the funds from the trust fund.
in writing. ‒ the eu trust fund for africa should have been a tool to contribute to stabilisation, socioeconomic development and thus to the fight against poverty in the region. i did not support this report which would unbalance relations between the eu and africa. the european parliament and europe in general have missed the opportunity to rethink their relationship with africa.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted against this report. it shares the concern that the european emergency fund for africa does not have the desired start-up capital. the n-va, however, does not think it is a good idea to include the fund in the budget of the european union. firstly, this would lead to an increase in the ceilings of the current multiannual financial framework, which was set for the period 2014-2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. this is because countries retain the flexibility to impose their own accents. belgium is one of the few member states which has kept its promises and put a lot of money into its pocket. it is time for other countries to take their responsibility.
in writing. through the trust fund for africa, the european union aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and illegal migration by ensuring that resilience, economic opportunities and equal opportunities, security and development are promoted. he insists that development money should serve development goals. it is therefore necessary to distinguish between the financial envelopes for development activities and those for migration management, border control, etc. with €1.8 billion currently from the commission and €81.71 million from the member states, norway and switzerland, the fund is expected to reach €3.6 billion. i very much hope that governments will heed jean-claude juncker's call for the member states' contributions to be equal to that of the commission. as for the overall amount allocated to the 23 countries of the african continent, ... one can wonder about the amount allocated when we know that ethiopia hosts more than 820 000 refugees and is the first country to receive refugees in africa and a transit country for many eritreans, somalis and south sudanese seeking europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european union trust fund for africa. the aim of the fund is to promote stability in these regions and to help manage migration better. in the context of the migration crisis, the report stresses the need to increase parliament's powers of control over the fund to check how it is used. greater coordination between actors, better transparency and enhanced communication are essential to create the conditions for wider participation. the report stresses that it is crucial to address the causes of migration and to understand its consequences in order to mobilise the fund more adequately.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text, following the advice of my colleague from the ps, an expert on the subject. however, it should be stressed that alliances with africa must be promoted without falling into a colonial approach which would be contrary to the values of the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. the european parliament must at all times give its consent to the budget of the european union. in some situations of emergency aid, it is understandable that parliament's budgetary agreement cannot always be requested. the parliament does ask that, given the extraordinary flexibility and speed inherent in a trust fund, a periodic report be made to parliament at least once every six months. there is a need for transparent monitoring, evaluation and accountability of performance. it must be possible to check that the funds have the desired effect and have been spent efficiently.
in writing. ‒ this report is about the creation of a set of legislative and non-legislative measures to promote a work-life balance. the commission and the member states are called upon to create equal pay and working conditions for men and women. the report also aims to increase the participation of women in the labour market in general by modernising the existing eu legal and policy framework and adapting it to today's labour market. the importance of high-quality early childhood care accessible to all is also highlighted, as is the need to better distribute care responsibilities (for children or family members) between men and women. in recent decades, there have already been some initiatives at european and national level in the area of reconciling work, private and family life, but progress is still needed in this area. i support parliament's call for this debate to be given greater weight and for the commission to be encouraged - in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity - to step up its work in this area in general.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report calling for the introduction of a framework to guarantee the right to work-life balance as a fundamental objective of social systems. like my colleagues, i believe that well-designed and well-implemented work-life balance policies can help to strengthen economic growth, overall labour market participation, gender equality, reducing the risk of poverty, but also to have a positive impact on the eu's birth rates (which have risen from 16.4% in 1970 to 10.1% in 2014). the report proposes that the commission submit a proposal on this package of measures as part of its 2017 work programme, including gender equality as a legal basis. these measures should include policies to support the most disadvantaged or currently excluded from the legislation (single parent families, homosexual couples, self-employed workers, families with one member suffering from a disability, etc.). the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the right to maternity and paternity leave is guaranteed, as well as leave for dependants.
in writing. it remains for every father, mother, employee or self-employed person to find a satisfactory balance between work, family and private life. initiatives have been taken at both national and european level to bridge the gap between work and private life. however, demographic changes are creating new care needs and continuing the diversification of family relationships. the report should be read primarily as a call on the commission to step up its work in promoting work-life balance. by taking the lead in seeking better work/family balance, the commission can help create a level playing field within the eu in a policy to promote work/family balance. this means taking decisive steps to reverse the negative impact of parenting on the number of women in work, making the principle of equal pay for equal work a common good, promoting home and teleworking and creating workable arrangements in all member states for men and women to take on caring responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ following the publication by the european commission of the roadmap for 'a new start to tackle the challenges between work and private life', parliament adopted its position to improve this reconciliation, which i supported by voting in favour of it at this plenary session. i believe that the european union must, in particular, put in place legislative initiatives to allow for this better conciliation. this is why i have supported, in particular, the idea at european level of a parental leave of 6 months, a paternity leave of 2 weeks and a leave for dependants supplementing the provision of professional care. as regards the intervention of the various social security systems, i am of the opinion that this is a matter for the member states. as regards the maternity leave directive, i very much regret that the previous proposal was withdrawn following the impasse in the council and ask the commission to present a new ambitious proposal in consultation with the social partners.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation abstained from voting on this report. the n-va is determined to work towards a healthy combination of work and family life for a variety of family situations, such as single parents, dual-earner families with young children, newly formed families, etc. an appropriate legal framework should provide workers with the opportunity to juggle their daily work, family and private lives, and employers with the flexibility to respond to the rapidly changing market. however, it is primarily the member states which have to create this framework; it must be as closely as possible adapted to the needs and realities of our citizens. unfortunately, the report misses the point here. it calls for all kinds of european legislative initiatives which would clearly violate the principle of subsidiarity. the report also raises concerns about the rejection of flexible working arrangements, the demand for more eu funds and a sometimes very patronizing tone towards women.
in writing. ‒ it is time for the union to take action to promote upward convergence between member states in favour of work-life balance. it is crucial, if we are to achieve genuine gender equality, to combat work-related poverty and child and women's poverty, to make better use of skills and talents and to take action to address the union's demographic challenges. there is a need both to modernise existing european legislation to address gaps or the absence of legislation in certain areas and to strengthen coordination between member states to ensure a level playing field as regards the costs and benefits of work-life balance policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is a subject close to my heart. the report takes a broad view of work-life balance. what resources can we provide from europe to make it easier for working people to have a family life? the report includes consideration of discrimination in the workplace, childcare facilities for young children and the role that grandparents can (but should not) play in a family with working parents. of course, we also pay attention to the employees, mostly women, who work on sometimes shaky parttime contracts and have children. these single-parent families often fall victim to poverty. another important point that we in the commission are urging is to work towards a parental leave scheme which certainly includes the father.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that a good balance between work and private life leads to higher productivity and a higher quality of life. measures that enhance such a work-life balance will also help women to gain better access to the labour market. i welcome recent eu legislation in this regard that enhances this as well as the demand on the commission and member states to develop specific measures that support single parents, unmarried couples same-sex couples and, of course, the self-employed. furthermore, it is important that we understand the role of working arrangements and their effects. this resolution also stresses the need to promote good practices. in that regard, i see great benefits for time outside work to be spent on training and both further personal and professional development.
mrs mogherini, as democrats, we all condemn the failed coup. but let's call a cat a cat. erdogan is going to make his own internal coup after july 15th. his purges and his persecutions are without measure, excessive and unjustifiable. the fact that europe, after the failed coup attempt, hailed the 'salvation of democracy' is therefore particularly cynical. i remember that erdogan recently praised the approach of nazi germany. it does not take a great historian to see the similarities between the events of the 1930s and those now in turkey. the free media had already largely sidelined erdogan before and now his heavy hand is reaching even into my own country. the flemish-turkish newspaper zaman vandaag stopped publishing at the end of august because of the pressure on readers, advertisers and especially journalists. this has never happened before in flanders, in my own country, and that is unacceptable. i repeat what i said here earlier: the european union is not a political union, but a political union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we forget our principles and we balance on a weak rope because we need turkey. it'll break us down eventually.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party yes, commissioner, if you please. i don't agree with you. if you say we need immigration, i disagree with you. please stop with the new speak and the use of the word "refugee". this morning in schleswig-holstein and lower saxony so-called refugees were taken from their refugee camp, as it turned out to be isis terrorists. die welt am sonntag also revealed in a report over the weekend that iraqis and syrians are returning to their country with their suitcases, even though they are registered as refugees here. i am not the one who says that all immigrants are terrorists, but please stop saying that they are all refugees. of course, you need that moral sauce: i am not going to go into the details of the situation. but it would be less hypocritical and more honest of you if you would simply tell the truth, namely: we, the european commission, have decided to organise a popular replacement, in front of you, the citizens of europe. we have decided that you are facing unsolicited immigration, the largest and most savage immigration and mass immigration with the greatest impact in the history of this continent. you should say that. for that you should have the honesty and i call on you to do so.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. with this report we want to send an important signal from parliament. let us improve political dialogue with our neighbour tunisia and strengthen our cooperation in the fields of trade, tourism, culture and, last but not least, the fight against terrorism. we believe that a more ambitious partnership is possible. europe can only be prosperous and secure if its neighbours are doing well. that is what we are trying to achieve with this report. on the political front, we call on tunisia to commit itself to measures against torture, the abolition of the death penalty and the repeal of a law banning homosexuality. on the economic front, we in the alde group feel it is very important that tunisia should make efforts to modernise and liberalise the economy, in order to create more jobs and to offer young tunisians opportunities and a perspective. and that's very important for my third priority: the fight against terror. as mrs mogherini said, i am concerned, very concerned, about the large numbers of young tunisians joining daesh and other terrorist groups. we must join tunisia in this struggle, ensure that young people are not recruited and draw up a plan for what to do when they return from these countries. terrorism is a shared problem that we must tackle together. but did you know, ladies and gentlemen, that europol is not even able to cooperate with tunisia in this area? tunisia is not on the list of countries with which europol can cooperate. i still think this is an incredibly missed opportunity. how can we make europe safe if we cannot cooperate with all our european neighbours in this area? so please, commission and council, add tunisia to that list of countries and let us, with europol, fight that battle and give our citizens the security they deserve.
madam president, madam commissioner, social dumping, as you know, is simply an abuse of the secondment directive, at best. in the worst cases, it is simply outright fraud or even abuse of workers. the fight against these practices will guarantee the real mobility of workers in the future, the mobility which will guarantee them the right, regardless of their nationality. the fight against social dumping also means fighting unfair competition between companies, and in particular smes, the very smes that do not resist these unfair practices. fighting fraudulent practices also means guaranteeing all member states - indeed all member states - to recover their share of the social protection of their workers. the report by mr balas which is before us proposes appropriate solutions to combat all these practices, solutions which, if implemented quickly - and i think there is indeed an urgency in this area - would make it possible to combat abusive practices in the interests of all.
madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs for this balanced report. social dumping is a complex issue, with perceptions varying according to political sensitivities, but also according to geographical sensitivities. for some, social dumping does not exist. the differences in wage and social costs are inherent in the freedom of competition and the principle of competitiveness. they would enable less developed regions to return to the level of the so-called more prosperous economies. for others, including myself, even if i am sometimes considered a populist, social dumping is a reality, which puts whole sections of our economies at risk every day and leads to an ever-increasing rejection of the european project. beyond these differences in perception, the question of social dumping is closely linked to the revision of the secondment directive, a subject which will occupy us for many months and on which parliament will have to show its will and speak with one voice. it is a difficult task, but not insurmountable, and the proof is the compromise reached on the definition of social dumping. it is our duty to overcome sterile oppositions, to build win-win solutions to meet the expectations of european citizens, namely to allow for a more balanced economic development in the different european regions and, at the same time, to put an end to the competitions between european countries, companies, but also salaried workers.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr balas, and all the shadow rapporteurs and other members of parliament who cooperated in preparing this report. with our social acquis, we have rules in place to prevent social dumping but we need to make sure that our rules are correctly applied. member states are responsible for enforcing labour law, rules for the posting of workers, rules on free movement and on health and safety at work, and – yes, mr balas – national labour inspectorates need sufficient resources to do that. we have already put in place several instruments that offer national authorities more and better tools to make sure that free movement is fair and well managed and that abuse is prevented. we have the platform against undeclared work, we have the enforcement directive on free movement of workers that makes mobile workers more aware of their rights and establishes national bodies to enforce those rights. we have the enforcement directive on posting of workers that introduces measures to prevent and penalise any abuses or circumventions of european rules on posting. with the upcoming social pillar – and this is important because, indeed, social dumping is not only about mobile work – and with the targeted revision of the posting of workers directive, with the amendments of the social security coordination regulation that are under preparation, with the roads initiatives, we want to make our acquis stronger and adapt it to the new challenges on the labour market. in conclusion, i am convinced that, by pooling all our efforts, we can ensure a fair labour market where there is no place for social dumping. so let us continue to work together. thank you very much for this debate.
in writing. social dumping not only erodes the social achievements of our workers, but also leads to exploitation of the workers concerned and makes it harder for honest companies to compete. it is high time for decisive action and a guarantee of equal pay for equal work in the same place for all workers. the key to this is tougher european rules, better implementation of the rules and more control by the inspection services. in 2014, parliament significantly extended the scope of its controls. the new proposal by commissioner marianne thyssen is now to tighten up the rules themselves and ensure that all belgian wage and working conditions apply without restriction to foreign workers temporarily employed in belgium. this proposal is at the top of our agenda.
mr president, commissioner, you have defended these agreements with great commitment, and it should be remembered that these agreements were negotiated under the barroso commission and under commissioner de gucht. we can see how difficult it is to defend agreements whose weaknesses you know, because i know that you have a sensitivity to the cause, namely the cause of sustainable development and the participation of civil society. these are the weaknesses we want to correct. i also understand the concerns of european farmers. it's a troubled sector. i also understand the concerns of local farmers, those who advocate agriculture to feed the local population. let me give you a simple example: lesotho, the country that is south africa's water reserve. lesotho is running out of water and can't produce its corn. there has been a 60 per cent increase in the price of maize in lesotho. he can't feed his people anymore. so, mr lambsdorff, i do not think that the people of lesotho will buy parma ham or parmigiano reggiano. we must defend the local people and that is why i will not vote for this agreement.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the european union joined cites 11 months ago now. progress is essential for us, but of course there is still a lot of work to be done. it's a little bit like, every time one species gets a little bit better -- i'm thinking of the giant pandas, for example -- another species gets added to the iucn red list of critically endangered species. this is now the case with the eastern great gorilla, which is the victim of intense poaching in the congo. it is today and it is the organizations that say it on the verge of extinction. the european union, so to speak, has a vital role to play in the great mass that is about to open in johannesburg. it must dare to shake up some of our strategic partners, i am thinking of china, i am thinking of japan, and put on the agenda - this has just been mentioned by mrs girling - the sensitive issue of trade in elephant ivory, rhino horn and tiger bones. europe must also set an example as an important transit market, and i am glad that this issue has been highlighted as a priority by our rapporteur and the commissioner as well. it is unacceptable that traffickers - these criminal traffickers - in some countries of the union, and in our own country, incur only minimal penalties: fines of up to eur 15 000 in some member states, while rhino horn on the black market can reach eur 50 000. the sanctions must be harmonized and really dissuasive, that is to say, in a more direct way, our article 50 in our resolution.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, if i have fully understood, according to the last speech, the source of nationalism and populism is here. we are the source of nationalism and populism. if you defend europe and if you defend a european vision, if you defend the european civilisation, then you are accused today of being the source of nationalism and protectionism. it is ridiculous, dear friends, to hear that. it is ridiculous, on the one hand, but it is a huge problem that we face because on one point mr kamall is right: the rise of nationalists and populists is a reality because a large part of our population no longer sees europe as a solution. it is true what mr weber said. young people are in favour of europe and, on the other hand, you have many large parts of the population who no longer see europe as the solution. that is the real crisis in europe for the moment, this split between generations, you could say, between young people believing in a european future and others who have huge problems with it. why do they have problems with it? let us face it together, not the young generation, but the other parts. i think it is important to do that at the time of the state of the union. i think that people have the impression that their lives are no longer controlled by the politicians that they have elected, neither on a national level, nor on the european level. what they see is terrorism, tax evasion, international crime, migration flows and so on. they have the feeling that they are not protected against such things. on the contrary, they see forces like competition, the free market and free trade as a source of unfairness and inequality rather than what i believe, which is that competition, free trade and so on are a source of new opportunities and of progress for the future. and that is the problem for the moment on the european continent. it is in such an environment that you have a split between generations and people who have lost control over their lives and do not believe that we politicians are capable of controlling their lives and helping them in their fears. it is in such an environment that you see the rise of nationalism and populism, not only in europe, let us face it. mr trump in the us is another example. here we have our own nationalists and populists from madame le pen to mélenchon – i do not see the difference – from time to time and they all preach one thing: a false sense of security. they believe that, with walls and fences, we can solve the problem and that we can keep problems outside our territories. with walls and fences they solve every problem. the migration problem is solved with that and climate change is solved with that. they solve every problem with walls and fences and i think that is wrong. how can you keep climate change outside your borders? with fences, with walls? how can you keep terrorists outside your borders? with national walls and fences, or with a european policy instead? how do you deal, for example, with tax evasion and with offshoring? you can only do that with supranational policies and supranational instruments in the future. (applause)i believe that it is true that the discontent, the fear and the anger of our citizens is caused by this fracture, a fracture that means that on the one hand we have the globalisation of our world and, on the other hand, democratic policies which are still only being developed on a national or local level. it is in my opinion this imbalance that was also the basis for the financial crisis in 2008 because the markets were global and our policies were not. it is also there that you can find weakness in a europe faced with putin and faced with autocrats like erdogan and so on. i think, if you really want to give a positive response to the fears of our citizens and to regain control over their lives, we need european solutions and european capacities as soon as possible. that does not mean abolishing national democracies. it means complementing them and that means at the same time, in my opinion – you could say it in one word – that europe is not the source but is the counterweight for wild and uncontrolled globalisation. at the same time, europe is also the cure against the cancer of nationalism that we have today in europe. that is in my opinion the right analysis to make and i think that you have responded to that with a list of concrete proposals. i see three essential proposals there. first of all, this european defence union, finally. this is the third attempt, mr juncker. the first time, in 1954, was refused by the french national assembly – let us not talk about that, it is good that france is now coming back after their mistake of 1954. we had a new attempt in 2003 – you remember that – and we also failed. now i am very pleased with the proposals, already backed by the hungarian and the polish governments. so let us do it because – let us be honest with each other – the americans will not take responsibility in our neighbourhood for much longer. we will do it ourselves or it will not be done in our neighbourhood. certainly, if trump is elected, i do not have any illusions about this unwillingness on their side to do anything. secondly, a good real governance for the euro and the economy. let us be honest, we cannot continue – gianni and manfred – as we are doing now. you say that we have to apply the stability and growth pact and then gianni stands up saying that we should not apply it. that is the reality today. france has a stability pact but says that it is no problem as they do not apply it. germany, on the other hand, says that it still has a stability pact, even though it does not apply it. that is the reality of today. we have to change it and i encourage you, mr juncker, to push forward the five presidents’ report with the treasury, with the minister of finance, with the fiscal capacity in the eurozone, and with the convergence call as soon as possible because this little game with the stability pact cannot go on anymore. we will lose any credibility towards the outside world. my last point is a common migration and asylum policy without delay. do we have the possibility to create this, to make this an achievement? have we the courage to do it? i think the environment is there because, let us look to brexit. brexit is not a liability. i see it more as an opportunity. why do i see it as an opportunity? because the british government wants to make a success of brexit and that is fair enough. that is their duty. but we also have our duty and our responsibility is to make brexit a success for europe and for all the citizens of europe. it is possible to end the dramatic complexity of our institution so for me – and i want to conclude with this – brexit is not a matter of punishment, it is not matter of revenge – i have never done politics like that. in my opinion, it is a question of the sound relationship between britain and europe and, moreover, it is about how we want europe, our own european union, in the future. that is at stake. so my message today is very clear and i will stop there. let us, on both sides of the channel, stop our collective depression and let us stop the politics of division and seize this opportunity not to kill europe, as some of you want, but to reinvent europe. (loud applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – first of all, i would like to thank the honourable member for his positive assessment of my appointment; that is the first time there has been a positive assessment from that side of the house. my answer to your question is yes.
mr president, you began by saying: i'm going to make positive suggestions. we in our group think that is extremely important. there is no point in falling into some kind of collective depression after brexit. we have to move. we must use our powers to the full to provide concrete answers to the challenges we face. you said yourself: europe is not social enough. it will not surprise you to find that our whole group agrees with you. we also ask you to find solutions to social dumping and youth unemployment. your concern for the young is very important. the young people support the european project, but they also support another economy, and that is a bit of my criticism. you have given a long list of many good projects, but i would also like you to pay very close attention to the transition in our economy. another industry is possible. new jobs are possible. but it has to be a different economy. so if we are going to invest extra, then those investments need to be grafted onto that transition economy.
mr president, very briefly, rebecca harms was shocked by the words used by mr farage. well i am not shocked by them. mr farage is like an alcoholic who complains that another guy is drinking a pint in a pub, to give a good example that he can understand. that it is his problem. it is, on the one hand, ridiculous. but on the other it is not ridiculous because the reality is that, for nationalists and populists, it is not about brexit, it is not about the interests of british citizens and certainly not about british industry: it is about destroying europe. the real agenda is about destroying the european union. that is also the reason why mr farage continues to sit here in this house. it is completely ridiculous that we are being attacked because we want european defence, when the us president himself is saying that we need to take responsibility on our own continent and it cannot always be the american army that will do it. ok, i understand, mr farage, that you are critical of the operation in libya. i understand too that you were apparently a good friend of all autocrats in the world, including mr putin and mr gaddafi. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i do not see any contradictions in this. i do not see any contradiction between european defence and the north atlantic treaty organisation. i see this, on the contrary, as a development of a european pillar of nato. it is absolutely necessary to regain control of our own neighbourhood as soon as possible.
in writing. speaking to the european parliament, president juncker proposes some great tools to improve society. but only yesterday the european commission was backing ttip and ceta at all costs, torpedoing free roaming, delaying the implementation of a real fight against social dumping or the creation of legislation on tax evasion. this schizophrenia is destabilizing the institutions and creating mistrust among the citizens. let us assume that this time juncker will keep his word and that the commission will make the general interest its top priority. europe must be the solution to deregulation and not its accomplice, europe must create security and not instability, brexit must be an opportunity for the institutions to question themselves and simplify the rules of its operation. europe, sometimes perceived as the problem, has everything to be the solution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the protocol between the european community and switzerland on the free movement of persons concerning the participation of croatia following its accession to the union. the protocol provides that, for a period of seven years, switzerland may restrict the entry of croatian nationals into its labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european community and its member states, on the one hand, and switzerland, on the other, signed an agreement on the free movement of persons on 21 june 1999. this free movement agreement entered into force on 1 june 2002. since then, the agreement has been adapted to take account of the enlargement of the european union to include new member states. it now remains to adapt that agreement to take account of the recent accession of croatia on 1 july 2013. by voting in favour of this report, parliament gives its approval to the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. ‒ the eu-15 signed a bilateral agreement with switzerland at the time to allow participation in the single market. the agreement was subsequently amended by means of several protocols whenever the eu was enlarged by a new member state. the same procedure is now being followed for the last member state to join, so that croatia and switzerland can open up their (labour) markets to each other. as in the past, the conclusion of protocol iii requires the consent of parliament. the nva delegation agreed to this purely technical adjustment after the accession of croatia, as switzerland is the eu's third largest trading partner after the united states, china and russia, while the eu is switzerland's largest trading partner. in other words, it is of the utmost importance that the eu as a trading bloc continues to take shape in a legal way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement with switzerland. due to its geographical and cultural proximity, and in particular its economic and political weight, the union, with its 28 member states, is switzerland's most important partner. comparatively, the eu has closer links with switzerland than with any other country outside the european economic area (eea), thanks to a wide range of agreements. while switzerland is the union's fourth largest trading partner, just after the united states, china and russia, the union is switzerland's largest trading partner. more than one million european citizens live in switzerland, and another 230 000 cross the border every day to work there. some 430 000 swiss citizens live in the union. with the accession of romania, bulgaria and croatia, the internal market has further expanded to include almost 505 million people and become even more important for our swiss partner.
in writing. ‒ again, an agreement between the eu and a third country (in this case switzerland) needs to be adapted to the changed situation due to the accession of croatia to the union. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which ensures that croats enjoy the same rights of free movement of persons when they travel to switzerland as the rest of the eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report on a draft council decision to comply with the institutional changes introduced by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. there is a social europe. however, the union's powers in this area are limited by the treaties, which do not confer on it the right to legislate on matters of pay, the right to strike, social security or to intervene in general in contractual relations between employees and employers. the holding of such a summit is a way for european leaders to take account of the aspirations of the social partners and for the social partners to contribute to the eu's economic and social strategy. it is clear that a growth strategy only makes sense if it is accompanied by a social strategy. in this context, i certainly support the establishment of the tripartite social summits for growth and jobs, which are part of the interprofessional dialogue and which are an initiative to move towards the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council decision to revise the 2003 decision institutionalizing a tripartite social summit for growth and jobs. this revision was necessary in particular to bring the text into line with the institutional changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon. the missions of this tripartite social summit remain broadly the same. the tripartite social summit will now be composed of the president of the european council, representatives at the highest level of the presidency of the council, the two successive presidencies, the commission and the social partners. i take this opportunity to stress the importance of action following this tripartite social summit. i share the view of the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, that a strong european social dialogue will be beneficial for the future of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on a tripartite social summit for growth and jobs and repealing decision 2003/174/ec, according to the s&d experts on the subject.
in writing. ‒ i co-approved the report on the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to provide a harmonised and coherent framework to guarantee the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels, because i believe it is necessary to guarantee a high level of safety for workers in the shipping sector and, more broadly, the efficiency of inland waterway transport. meps also want to see the eu's role in the fight against terrorism strengthened. they have therefore asked for a periodic review of the directive after three years to assess the mechanisms for cooperation with the relevant international organisations, which seems to be the most responsible decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the directive on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels, as it provides a harmonised and coherent framework to ensure a high and uniform level of safety for inland waterway vessels.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the text of my colleague and friend ivo belet. parliament and the council agreed on the general objective of the directive, which is to provide a harmonised and coherent framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels. the two institutions expressed their support for a rationalisation of the use of resources for the development of technical standards and their adaptation to scientific and technical progress by using standards developed by international organisations, in particular cesni.
in writing. ‒ the economic partnership agreement (epa) aims to promote trade, regional integration and the progressive integration of the acp countries into the world economy and to encourage their sustainable development. this purely commercial agreement, a vestige of a bilateral relationship from another time, is in total contradiction with european commitments in terms of policies and development objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the lambsdorff report on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the economic partnership agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the sadc epa states, of the other part. we felt that this was unacceptable to the parties concerned and crossed our red lines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation because the economic partnership agreement between the sadc countries (the southern african states) and the eu has the potential for fundamental improvements. it will contribute to sustainable economic growth and enhanced interregional trade and integration. the trade and partnership agreement, however, can only be a small part of a wider strategy. the sadc countries must promote trade and development in their domestic policies and implement structural reforms. in addition, a regulatory framework is needed to attract investment.
in writing. ‒ considering in particular that workers in the fishing sector need to be given special protection in view of the characteristics of work on board fishing vessels (high rate of fatal and non-fatal accidents, higher risks of occupational diseases than in other sectors), i therefore wanted to join this resolution recommending the immediate adoption of the council directive on the implementation of the agreement between the social partners on the implementation of the ilo convention on work in fishing 2007. in 2002, the international labour organisation (ilo) launched global discussions on a comprehensive and updated set of international standards for the fisheries sector to ensure adequate protection for fishermen worldwide. this initiative led to the adoption of the convention on work in fishing in 2007.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this resolution on the implementation of the agreement concluded at union level between the social partners and on the ilo fisheries labour convention. the specific working conditions in the fisheries sector are such that it is important to take account of the specific nature of this sector and to provide sufficient and adequate protection for its workers. the hazardous working environment, accidents and accumulation of fatigue are among the characteristics that make fishing atypical and require special attention. i am glad that this agreement between the social partners can now be the subject of a council directive. given the importance of the union's role in fisheries on the international scene, such a development should enable it to use all its influence to push for the improvement of working conditions for fishermen globally.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a council directive implementing the agreement between the general confederation of agricultural cooperatives of the european union, the european transport workers' federation and the association of national fisheries organisation organisations of the european union. this agreement, concluded on 21 may 2012 and amended on 8 may 2013, concerns the implementation of the international labour organisation's fisheries labour convention of 2007. i take this opportunity to recall the importance of agreements between the social partners at all levels. as a member of the european parliament, i am in favour of these agreements being systematically monitored closely by the european institutions in order to enrich the legislation of the union.
in writing. ‒ parliament welcomed the fact that the agreement reached by the social partners and the commission proposal only set minimum requirements, allowing member states and/or social partners to adopt measures which are more favourable to workers in the sector concerned, and noted that the agreement also applies to self-employed fishermen who work alongside employees on the same vessel. we stress through this text the need to develop the provisions on wages, social protection and social security in order to guarantee an adequate and decent income to workers and their families, including in the event of injury, accident or death. finally, it is important to establish the necessary mechanisms for the implementation of the agreement, in particular by adopting appropriate inspection and enforcement measures.
in writing. ‒ the resolution concerns the recent developments in poland and their impact on the fundamental rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the applicants consider that any attempt to intervene in areas which they consider to be the exclusive competence of the member states or which concern the internal affairs of poland is unjustified. i have spoken against this motion because i share the view of the large majority in this parliament and also believe that it is important that the european parliament should express its concerns about the recent developments in poland. the principles of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary must also be maintained in poland. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to engage in a 'constructive and productive' dialogue with the polish government in order to find rapid and concrete solutions to the 'systemic threats to the rule of law'.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution, which first of all recalls the fundamental importance of the values enshrined in article 2 of the eu treaty, in particular respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law within the union. the paralysis of the constitutional court or the changes to the laws on public media and the police make the situation in poland extremely worrying. this concern is further reinforced by the lack of cooperation between the polish government and the european commission. it must be firmly reaffirmed that democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights are non-negotiable values within the union. the polish government must now cooperate with the commission and respect its recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the recent developments in poland and their impact on fundamental rights. the text stresses that it is of fundamental importance to ensure that the european values enshrined in the eu treaty and the polish constitution are fully respected and that fundamental rights are guaranteed. the situation in poland is worrying, particularly with regard to the paralysis of the constitutional tribunal, which is endangering democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law in that country. parliament welcomed the commission's determination to pursue a constructive and productive dialogue with the polish government with a view to finding rapid and concrete solutions to the threats to the rule of law. parliament called on the polish government to cooperate with the commission in accordance with the principle of loyal cooperation enshrined in the treaty. the resolution also calls on the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to monitor the follow-up given by the polish authorities to the recommendations. i have abstained from voting on any amendment tabled in plenary so as not to risk losing the support of the majority of members on the text.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this resolution on the situation in poland and its impact on fundamental rights. as the constitutional crisis remains unresolved and the dialogue launched by the commission under the rule of law mechanism is still ongoing, it was crucial that parliament took a stand and sent a clear message to the polish authorities. it was therefore crucial that the text should receive the votes required to become parliament's position. it is with this awareness of the need that i have chosen to vote for the text as supported by the majority of the political groups. while i approve in substance the amendments to the text tabled by other groups, i have chosen to follow my group by abstaining on most of these amendments. given that the polish authorities will have to respond next month to the recommendation addressed to them by the commission under the rule of law mechanism, parliament should be able to agree on a common position before that date while remaining sufficiently committed to the polish authorities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the situation in poland because the constitutional crisis in that member state and the responses to it are, to say the least, worrying. the polish government must follow the recommendations of the venice commission and the european commission without delay in order to be in line with the values of the european union, to which poland has subscribed. the european union must do everything in its power to ensure respect for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. i am particularly concerned and appalled to see the independence of the media, freedom of expression, the right to privacy and justice threatened by the attitude of the polish authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is based on four principles: it is of the opinion that any attempt to interfere in the exclusive competence of the member states, including poland's internal affairs, is unfounded; solemnly reaffirms its attachment to the principles of national identity and sovereignty, which are indivisible from the principle of freedom; recalls that the commission is not a political body but the executive body of the union and must therefore strictly respect the treaties, including article 5 of the treaty on european union and articles 3 to 6 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union; instructs its president to forward this resolution to the council and the commission and to the governments and parliaments of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this own-initiative report on relations with tunisia, which recalls the vital importance of supporting the democratic transition process in the country. to this end, the report sets out a wide range of areas where the union can intervene to help a country whose economy has been badly affected by terrorism. the report envisages a genuine marshall plan to support democratic consolidation and to promote socioeconomic investment that will create jobs and social progress. the report stresses in this connection its full support for the negotiations which have been launched with a view to concluding an ambitious free trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is essential that the eu supports the democratic transition process in tunisia. the consolidation of this process is more crucial than ever for the stability of the whole region. tunisia faces major challenges, including economic slowdown, rising unemployment and terrorist attacks that discourage tourists. at the same time, tunisia has received more than 1.8 million refugees (almost 20% of its population) from libya. in this context, tunisia's transition to democracy is remarkable and i believe that the eu must stand by it. i therefore support the plan to lend €500 million to tunisia to help it reduce its external debt, consolidate its democratic mechanisms and develop all sectors of economic and social life. i call on tunisia to sign the memorandum of understanding with the commission committing it to structural reforms and sound public financial management. tunisia must guarantee effective democratic mechanisms, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
in writing. the consolidation of the democratic transition process in tunisia is of paramount importance for stability in the region and for security in europe. but tunisia has also been hit hard by terrorist attacks in recent years. the country also served as a recruitment ground for is. in this context, the tunisian economy, which is highly dependent on foreign investment, tourism and exports of products to the eu, suffered severely. this economic stagnation must be broken. the eu has taken urgent trade measures to support the tunisian economy over the past year. but in order to strengthen democracy and get the economy back on track, tunisia needs to implement structural reforms. the eu is therefore supporting the country in its efforts to modernise and liberalise its economy, although it will also need to reform the labour market and adapt education to the needs of the labour market. to achieve its broader political and social ambitions, it is desirable to reform the judiciary, work towards deradicalization, re-establish the death penalty and guarantee freedom of the press and association.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, the ep reiterated its support for tunisia. and for good reason: since the arab spring, born on its own soil, tunisia has been suffering from political instability as well as the reality of terrorism. the 2015 attacks on the bardo museum and the sousse resort, as well as the march 2016 attack on the national guard post in ben gerdane, are still in everyone's memory. it is crucial that europe stands with this fragile but courageous country in the fight against terrorism. the european aid, some €500 million, is to be seen in this context and is a 'bol d'air' for the tunisian people. the latter is also directly affected by the lack of tourists, a key sector in tunisia, which accounts for more than 7% of national gdp. in adopting the castaldo report, meps also underlined the key role played by civil society in the adoption of social reforms. the awarding of the nobel peace prize in 2015 to the tunisian national dialogue quartet was the culmination of the efforts of an entire country.
in writing. ‒ the peaceful democratic transition underway in tunisia today should be seen as an example in the arab world. however, i am concerned about the impact of the new anti-terrorism legislation on fundamental rights. the fight against terrorism is important and requires an adequate response, which cannot, however, be contrary to these rights. as regards the economic and social development of that country, i welcome the commission's proposal to provide macro-financial assistance of eur 500 million. i also believe that it is necessary to convert tunisian debt into strategic investment projects. there are many other elements in the text which i can fully endorse, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which renews our commitment to the tunisian people and the political transition process that began in 2011. we underline the challenges and threats facing the country as it seeks to consolidate the democratic process, implement the necessary reforms in the interests of its social and economic prosperity, and ensure its security. the union and the member states must mobilise and better coordinate substantial technical and financial resources to provide concrete assistance to tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report to send an important message: let us improve political dialogue with our neighbour tunisia and strengthen our cooperation in the fields of trade, tourism, culture and last but not least the fight against terrorism. we believe that a more ambitious partnership is possible. europe can only be prosperous and secure if its neighbours are doing well. that is what we are trying to achieve with this report. politically, we ask that tunisia commit itself to measures against torture, to the abolition of the death penalty and to the repeal of the law criminalizing homosexuality. from an economic point of view, i think it is very important that tunisia is striving to modernise and liberalise the economy, to create more jobs and to offer young tunisians opportunities and prospects. that is very important for my third priority, which is the fight against terrorism. i am concerned about the tunisian youth joining daesh and other terrorist groups. we must work with tunisia to ensure that young people are not recruited as foreign fighters. we need to work together to develop a strategy to deal with returned fighters, ...
in writing. ‒ this report addresses the issue of social dumping and calls, among other things, for improved cooperation between the member states' labour inspectorates. the commission also proposes to establish an eu-wide list of companies, including letterbox companies, responsible for serious breaches of european labour and social law and to introduce a european social security card. social dumping, unemployment and low wages increase the risk of poverty and social exclusion. i fully support the initiative to combat social dumping in the eu and to reform the posting of workers directive. this is where improvements are absolutely necessary. in belgium too, many jobs are lost every year, particularly in the construction sector, due to the use of underpaid and socially unprotected posted workers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to combat social dumping in europe. this is the strong signal that the european parliament wants to send with this report. this vote is a major step towards the europe of social convergence, an essential bulwark against the deregulated market which pits european workers against each other. the european parliament adopted concrete proposals, including:the fight against so-called 'letterbox' companies by ensuring that companies established in a member state of the union have a genuine activity; the introduction of a threshold of 60% of the national average wage as a reference for setting the minimum wage in the member states; the extension of joint and several liability throughout the subcontracting chain; the possibility for competent authorities to suspend the provision of services in the event of serious breaches of the legislation on the posting of workers; the registration of secondment declarations in a european register to facilitate consultation and coordination between member states; the commission was asked to assess the impact of the differential in social contributions of employers and employees between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it sets out concrete measures to be implemented to combat social dumping, which is the victim of many sectors of activity in europe, starting with the construction and transport sectors. the free movement of workers is undoubtedly a european added value, but the shortcomings and inaccuracies of the posting of workers directive have led to too frequent violations of european and national legislation (non-declaration in the country of origin, wages far below the minimum wage, exceeding the maximum working hours, etc.) and caused many bankruptcies and redundancies in europe. we need the mobility of workers, but this mobility must be properly supervised and competition must be fair. the eu must therefore have a real capacity for control, facilitate the work of our inspectors on the ground and harmonise sanctions. this approach is the best shield to strengthen the free movement of workers.
in writing. social dumping is an unfair practice that undermines the mobility of european workers and distorts the very philosophy of the union. we must ensure that the free movement of workers respects the rules of fair and just competition. the priority is to enforce the rules. we must have a real capacity for control, facilitate the work of our inspectors in the field and harmonize sanctions. this approach is the best shield to strengthen the free movement of workers, which is a principle cherished by the liberals and an added value of the european project. in addition, as the report points out, we must create a european social security card that is unforgeable, as proposed by the mr programme, in order to certify the payment of social contributions or to establish a european list of companies which have seriously violated our social and labour legislation. i would like to support commissioner marianne thyssen in her proposal to amend the 1996 'posting of workers' directive. it is essential to strengthen the rules to protect companies and workers from fraud and to apply the principle of 'equal pay for equal work'.
in writing. ‒ today we voted on a report on social dumping in europe. it is the result of a compromise, it is not perfect, but i supported it, because it has the merit of producing a definition of social dumping (which, for some, does not exist...) and of proposing concrete measures to prevent unfair competition. a positive first step in the run-up to the resumption of discussions on the revision of the directive on the posting of workers. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. the protection of social rights and equal rights in europe is not yet a reality, but any initiative in this direction must be encouraged.
in writing. ‒ the n-va is committed to tackling social dumping. a fairer european labour market is simply a must. however, the n-va cannot support this report because it takes the wrong approach. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. further objections to the n-va include, for example, the rejection of flexible employment contracts as a whole, the stigmatisation of robotics and artificial intelligence as major causes of job loss, the disapproval of one-person companies, etc. the n-va therefore abstained from voting on this report. however, it deliberately chose not to vote against the resolution in order to send the message that the fight against social dumping is of paramount importance to the n-va. the n-va believes that this fight should be waged by means of, for example, the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place, the reduction of the period of secondment to a maximum of six months and the payment of social security contributions in the country of work.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague mr balas. the rapporteur wanted to make concrete proposals, most often from employers, employees or experts in the field. he stressed the importance of social issues, in particular that of unfair social competition among our fellow europeans. it thus underlines the importance of the european parliament having a strong and heard voice in helping to build a more social europe and thus more supported by our peoples. but we must regret the epp's intention to slightly empty the text of its essence!
in writing. ‒ the report on social dumping in the eu is lacking in many areas. i voted against it with my group.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the parliamentary resolution because i recognise that social dumping is an important issue in the eu that needs to be addressed. especially in the transport sector action needs to be taken. the commission has already indicated that it is working on this. setting up a european road and transport agency can help in this regard. i agree that it is very important that fair competition is guaranteed. in order to ensure this, both fraud and tax evasion need to be combated. with regard to the enforcement of adherence to current legislation, i welcome specific measures mentioned in this resolution. the use of technology will play a strong role herein. member states’ authorities should focus more on an exchange of information on the posting of workers and the companies involved in this. however, we should avoid the misuse of the term ‘social dumping’ for protectionist purposes.
in writing. ‒ we rejected the technical standards proposals that the european commission submitted to us because it did not listen to the demands of this parliament. we do, however, want to reaffirm our commitment to protecting retail investors. indeed, the main concerns expressed by the european parliament's negotiating team were that the kid was not intended, in the first place, to inform investors to make an appropriate investment decision, but to help product initiators to sell their products.
in writing. retail investors who wish to make an investment are offered a wide range of insurance-based retail packaged investment products. the information currently provided to retail investors on these products is not coordinated. as a result, retail investors have frequently made investments without understanding the associated risks and costs and have sometimes incurred unforeseen losses. in view of these elements, regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 was established and applies from 31 december 2016. however, the delegated act adopted by the commission still lacks the elements that would make it possible to inform consumers of investment products in an optimal way. we therefore ask the commission to submit a new delegated act which takes account of the new concerns of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the european commission's draft technical measures detailing the pre-contractual information that a retail investor can use to compare certain financial products. it believes that consumers should not be misled by information on financial products. it is essential to ensure maximum consumer protection for these services. like many of my colleagues, i am asking the commission to formulate a new delegated act and to postpone the entry into force of the priip regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the delegated regulation of 30.6.2016 supplementing regulation (eu) of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents for insurance-based retail investment products (priips) with regulatory technical standards on the presentation, content, review and revision of key information documents and the conditions for complying with the obligation to provide such documents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because we, as a parliament, object to this commission delegated regulation. we ask the commission to submit a new delegated act.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases (2016/2891(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, first i would like to apologise because i will not be able to be here for the whole debate. the reason is that i need to rush back home because we are finalising the preparations for the meeting in bratislava. you added this point to the agenda on monday, therefore i changed my schedule because it was important to present the position but i will not be able to stay here for the debate. news of the closures announced, most recently in belgium and france, created anxiety and anger in the towns and regions concerned. the recent cases of caterpillar and alstom are a reflection of a more widespread phenomenon of mass redundancies across the eu as a result of the changing economic environment, with deep employment and social effects. the recent crisis in the steel and automotive industries, as well as the announced restructuring, show that serious reflection and action is needed in the member states and at eu level. we need to decide whether we want to let our industrial know—how slip away elsewhere or whether we should take determined action to improve the framework conditions for our industries. back in june 2013 the european council recognised the vital importance of a strong european industrial base as an essential building block of the eu’s growth and competitiveness agenda. as you noted in your resolution of 2014, there are several aspects to consider, and i will touch upon them. like parliament, the council has called for an ambitious and active industrial policy. this should include sectoral initiatives to be pursued by the commission whenever the challenges to competitiveness and the need to maintain a strong industrial base require it. to ensure an active industrial policy, industrial competitiveness needs to be mainstreamed across all relevant policy areas. infrastructures, including digital ones, must also be developed with a long—term view. labour markets should enable growth, while safeguarding the social rights of workers. in the area of financing, progress has been made through recent instruments such as the european fund for strategic investments. there is, however, still a need to remove obstacles to – and to promote – new debt and equity financing. the potential of increasingly strategic and targeted lending by the european investment bank to innovation and industrial transformation projects, notably in manufacturing and related services, could also be looked into. as local and regional decision makers are responsible for two-thirds of public investment in the eu, their interaction with business and industry is highly relevant. regions can play a key role in supporting industrial modernisation. this can be done, inter alia, by combining regional policy and industrial policy tools. as recent events show, there is also a need for effective social dialogue involving governments and the social partners. at union level there has been a growing recognition of the importance of involving the social partners at different levels. the council has welcomed the steps taken by the commission to involve the social partners in policies that may have a significant impact on the employment and social situation, but dialogue and policy also need to take into account the financial aspects. to this end the european union has developed an instrument to support workers’ employability and mitigate the adverse social consequences of restructuring. the european globalisation fund (egf) gives specific one-off support aiming to facilitate the reintegration of redundant workers suffering the shock of serious economic disruption. the egf is, however, only a tool to manage such difficult situations once they arise. together we need to engage in efforts to manage the adaptation of the current economic environment, achieving gains in competitiveness, whilst preserving quality employment. there are some excellent signs. research and innovation are essential for the sustainable development of the european economy. it is in this context that the presidency, in cooperation with the commission, is inviting representatives from european and international research, innovation communities and the business sector to a major international conference on the re-industrialisation of the european union. this event will take place in bratislava on 26-28 october 2016 and will focus on the fields of nanotechnologies, advanced materials, manufacturing and production technologies, as well as biotechnology. another key element is the digitalisation of industry, which has a cross-fertilising effect on all sectors. however, we are still lacking coherent development across europe. the eu, member states, regions and industry all have a role to play in fostering the digitalisation of business processes and in developing the industrial dimension of the digital agenda. therefore the council welcomes the recent commission communication on digitising european industry. finally, as the commission has indicated in its new skills agenda, sustained investment in education and training and better alignment of skills and labour market needs are necessary as a way of contributing to employment, growth and competitiveness. these are the different aspects we need to work on if we want to re-industrialise europe. parliament and the commission are working hard towards these goals and so is the council. re—industrialisation will be addressed by the competitiveness council on 29 september 2016, and i would remind you once again of the conference that we will be hosting in bratislava. i invite you to attend. once again i apologise that i have to leave but i am already very late.
member of the commission. – madam president, the recent announcements by caterpillar and alstom about the envisaged closings of major industrial plants in europe are a hard blow for the affected people and a severe setback for the regions concerned. i thank the european parliament for organising this debate and for making the link with the vitally important issue of the future of the european industry and the need for industrial competitiveness. in cases like these, the immediate priority of the commission is to support those directly affected. it is absolutely necessary to quickly establish a perspective for the workers, their families, as well as the local economy. europe does not stay on the side—line. we must work together at all political levels to help the workers who have lost their jobs and to assist the regions in overcoming this difficult economic and social situation. first and foremost, companies operating in europe have the legal and moral responsibility to put social dialogue at the heart of the restructuring processes. information and consultation of workers is a core feature of our european social model. it is absolutely clear that no company is allowed to escape this responsibility towards its workers. secondly, where redundancies or closing a business are linked largely to developments at global level, we have a solidarity fund, the european globalisation adjustment fund (fonds européen d’ajustement à la mondialisation), which can provide financial support for the workers and regions affected. eur 3 million have already been granted in the past years to cover redundant workers from caterpillar and some related companies in the region. seeing the context, additional financial support from the european globalisation fund can be made available, upon request from the member states concerned. financial means from the egf can be used to support, amongst others, the professional retraining of workers. in addition, the european regional fund and the european social fund can be put at the service of the conversion of the region and the affected workers. to respond to the serious situation in gosselies, we have set up a taskforce, a taskforce which will be an interface for the belgian authorities with the commission, and which will assist with any questions arising during the process ahead, for instance related to the legal framework or the use of european funds. while these measures all contribute to our short-term response, this commission has from the beginning sent a strong signal on the necessity to preserve and improve the competitiveness of our industrial economy over the long term with the investment plan for europe. in july 2016, eur 20.4 billion had already been invested in infrastructure projects, innovation and small- and medium-sized enterprises under the european fund for strategic investment. this amount is expected to generate eur 115 billion in investments. and, as announced this morning by president juncker in his state of the union address, the commission will take this further by doubling the duration of the fund, and doubling its financial capacity. this should lead to a total of at least eur 500 billion of private investments by 2020. the investment plan also aims at removing barriers to investment and at creating simpler, better and more predictable regulation in the european union. the industrial dimension is also incorporated into all other major commission policies: the single market strategy, the circular economy package, the digital single market, the energy union, the capital markets union, our research and development agenda, the better regulation agenda, the trade for all strategy and the new skills agenda for europe. indeed, in a fast-changing global economy, skills will, to a large extent, determine europe’s competitiveness and the capacity to drive innovation. they also help mobilise and attract investment and they are a catalyst in the virtuous circle of job creation and growth. our skills agenda is an agenda for all: young, old, in education, unemployed, in work or indeed in transition between jobs. our industry is strong. nevertheless, worldwide competition is increasing. so we must step up our efforts at all levels to ensure that europe remains a competitive and attractive environment for manufacturing.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the announced closure of caterpillar in gosselies has left more than 6,000 workers in disarray, but also in misunderstanding. caterpillar is not unique. every week, the european globalisation adjustment fund receives files: finland, nokia/microsoft, more than 8 000 redundancies; sweden, ericsson, more than 1 500 redundancies. the number of redundancies is increasing, and the number of employees is increasing. the list is long, but what is unacceptable is not just a company closing, but how it closes and why it closes. so, to return to caterpillar, it's a group that puts its seats where it pays the least. caterpillar is in switzerland to avoid paying taxes in europe. caterpillar is also a profit-making company, choosing to pay back its capital rather than invest in promising employment strategies. caterpillar is also a decision-making centre outside europe, which neglects the civic role that a company must play at european level. well this model, it's a model that you find with a lot of multinational corporations today. finally, caterpillar, this is also a direct effect of european austerity, because less public works equals less investment in machinery, whereas it is said that green investment could be job-creating, and i think we should work towards that. so what do you do? firstly, madam commissioner, as you said, we must help the workers who have been made redundant and the regions affected, and i know how much you are willing to do that. secondly, we need to boost public investment. thirdly, we must ensure taxation where wealth is produced. fourthly, we must fight against the financialisation of our economy. fifthly, it is important not to give absolute rights to foreign investors. we are prepared here in this parliament to accept agreements with private investment and arbitration courts which would give absolute rights to foreign investors. we must stop this mechanism. finally, we need to have impact studies on globalisation and not just impact studies on what it brings in positive - it is true that there are positive effects - but also on the negative effects. if we deny the negative effects, we will not be able to prepare ourselves to adapt our businesses and to adapt our structure and, therefore, we need to be much more sincere about globalization.
the first thought in an announcement such as caterpillar's is always to those involved. the ecr group and my party, the n-va, sympathize with the thousands of workers and subcontractors affected. for them, the intention to close is a very strong one. there is a lot of concern about globalization. the correct answer is: well-thought-out policy. some elements are crucial. we must not give in to protectionist tendencies. international competition is just leading to more jobs, not less. we need to put job security ahead of job security. continuous technological change requires a labour market that is able to adapt quickly in order to maintain and improve our prosperity and employment. we can't write off anyone before they're ready to enter the job market. to pay for ageing, the labour market position of older workers must change drastically. the eu can be expected to provide support for collective redundancies through the european globalisation adjustment fund. but passing the bill on to the taxpayer is not a sustainable solution. we are not going to solve unemployment with a european transfer union. it is up to the member states to make a full effort to implement structural reforms that maximise job creation and entrepreneurship. in my own member state, belgium, the federal and flemish governments are already setting a good example. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the question is "blue cardboard". i heard mr stevens say that the n-va, his party, was in solidarity with the workers. the best way to show solidarity is as we did in belgium a few years ago when ford genk was restructured. there has been a national solidarity in belgium to ensure that workers can have access to pre-retirement. i see that the n-va is no longer in favour of this method. today, however, it could be a solution to alleviate the crisis and the social cataclysm that is being experienced in gosselies and its entire region. why is the n-va opposed to the access to pre-retirement for workers who are victims of this restructuring?
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for your question, but you must listen very carefully to my speech. we are against the depreciation of older workers, and therefore we are against the idea of a bridge pension because it does not provide a fundamental solution. we must ensure that older workers can be up-skillled so that they can find a new job. that's our intention. a bridge pension is not in itself a solution.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on the morning of 2 september caterpillar announced that it would close its gosselies site. the announcement is steep, the blow is brutal, the workers are alarmed and the politicians are shocked. more than 2,000 workers will be laid off by the company, twice as many by the subcontractors. we know that any business closure is painful. but this one hurts especially. first there is the brutality, if not the violence, of a faceless capitalism decision; the european parliament has not yet been informed of this decision by the government of my country and the american leaders are absent from the meeting, even when the belgian parliament asks them to come. there's also the injustice of fate. this closure affects a region tragically affected by industrial decline, with a very high level of unemployment and a very worrying lack of attractiveness. finally, as has been said, there is the budgetary constraint resulting from the stability pact, which weighs on the means of action of the walloon and brussels governments. so what do you do? first, to require caterpillar to comply scrupulously with all the provisions of the renault procedure. this means firstly requiring credible justification for the decision to close a successful site by a company that is profitable and has little debt. secondly, if the decision is confirmed, to make every effort to ensure that workers receive fair compensation and have a good chance of being re-employed. you have clearly understood the situation, commissioner, by meeting the trade unions and political leaders and announcing at the outset the creation of a task force within the commission services and your willingness to mobilise all the means that can be mobilized to support the efforts of redeploying workers. all these initiatives must be taken, but they are not enough. i heard the president of the commission this morning, in his state of the union address, reaffirm his commitment to building a social europe and a europe that protects. i doubt that the workers of caterpillar or alstom today have the conviction that europe will protect them. i am well aware that we are living in a time of great change due to globalisation and the emergence of an economically multipolar world. and it is right, madam commissioner, that you have reminded caterpillar's management that social dialogue is part of europe's dna. but it would also be better to have new instruments at european level, such as a specifically industrial strategic investment fund to consolidate or recreate a solid industrial base in europe, and it would be good to have a broader and more contractual code of conduct with the companies investing in our countries than the renault procedure which in fact only regulates closures. this is a real challenge for the juncker commission, which intends to put investment and social issues at the heart of its policy.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, between 2009 and 2015, caterpillar has seen a 50% increase in dividends per share and a 15% loss of jobs. these figures alone demonstrate that the cancer of financialization continues to gnaw at the heart of our economy and that, despite the professions of faith following the financial crisis, maximizing short-term profit remains the alpha and omega of corporate policy, and putting finance and the economy back in the service of society, a pious wish. caterpillar is not an isolated case, as industrial employment in europe has risen from 20% to 15% of the working population since 2000. and to hear commissioner malmström, who is pushing the ceta and ttip trade agreements with a certain obsession, we must expect even more social unrest, since she is asking you, mrs thyssen, to strengthen the globalisation adjustment fund, all this, while the europeans have set themselves the objective of increasing the share of industry in their gdp to 20%. and we're right because whether it's energy, mobility, buildings, to take just these three examples, industry has a critical role to play in the transition of our economy to an energy and resource-efficient economy. europe, ladies and gentlemen, has every interest, for its own competitiveness, in leading this transition, in being a leader rather than a follower. so, beyond the emotion aroused by the arbitrary closure of caterpillar to gosselies, we must finally learn the lessons of these serial restructurings and adopt the essential elements of an industrial policy. first, it involves the reorganization of the financial system. and there's still a lot of work to be done. as long as the profit standard is set by financial institutions too big to fail, well, our economy will be entirely enslaved to finance. secondly, a reorientation of trade policy. we must put an end to these draft trade agreements tailored to the interests of shareholders alone and make access to the european market conditional on compliance with the social, environmental and fiscal standards of our union. thirdly, industry must be put at the service of transition and transition at the service of industry. indeed, we have the means to put our industry at the forefront of their transition. let us set ourselves ambitious and binding targets for energy and resource efficiency. let us ensure that the juncker investment plan, instead of just throwing money around, focuses on industry and the ecological transition. finally, industrial employment is increasingly being replaced by machines. this is not in itself a bad thing, provided that the profits are distributed fairly. in other words, we must question our model of work organisation, that is, the sharing of work and income. this is the inevitable evolution of our societies if we do not want to leave millions of people on the side of the road. (the president agreed to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
answer is "blue cardboard". if i do not include all the ideas in my speeches, it is usually because in two and a half minutes you cannot say everything. now, what is clear is that the massive financing of the economy by the european central bank in recent years and it's a continuing financing, what is called quantitative easing is again something that is dispersed in a totally indiscriminate way. we have been advocating for a long time to green this quantitative easing, in other words to target investments not on speculation - we can see that asset markets are exploding because liquidity is being injected into the system - but rather to direct, through the european investment bank and other public investment tools, this liquidity towards the investments necessary for the ecological transition of the economy. it makes sense and yet there is still no political will to put this in place. i hope that one day we will have a majority at national and european level to put these policies in place.
madam president, february 2013, restructuring of caterpillar, 1,400 people laid off. management's promise of a future for the company. the workers are making concessions in terms of pay, in terms of flexibility. the result today, thank you: closure of the gosselies site, dismissal of all staff, and this in defiance of the employees, in defiance of social dialogue, in defiance of the political authorities of the country. unfortunately, in the region, in europe, this is not the first, nor the last business closure. but it is nevertheless an example, and i will quote the words of philippe maystadt, the former president of the eib: caterpillar is the product of a totally deregulated capitalism. this closure calls for a number of responses. in terms of the globalisation adjustment fund, we need to be able to move faster, we need to be able to integrate subcontracted workers who are doubly victims of this type of situation. we need an ambitious industrial recovery plan and i would like to congratulate the commission on its willingness to provide more aid, to increase the resources of the investment fund. we must find the means at european and national level to really build projects with a future in economic terms, projects with a future in terms of energy, mobility or digital technology. we also need to stop being naive and defend our industry. when china produces at costs that defy all competition, well, our companies can't resist. in international markets, all players must play by the same rules. let me give you an example: we produce the most environmentally friendly machinery at caterpillar, but we buy chinese machinery that does not meet those standards. finally, i welcome the commissioner's intention to set up a task force. that's important, but i also want to evaluate the stability pack. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, commissioner, as you know, the closure of caterpillar in gosselies means that over 6,000 jobs have been sacrificed to fill the pockets of an american pension fund. this is obviously a brutal and scandalous act which strikes at the heart of my region, as unfortunately it does in far too many regions in europe. i really want to take this platform to express my support for the workers and their families. i would also like to stress their dignity in the face of this ordeal, as well as that of the trade union organisations. we would have really liked to see the same attitude from the caterpillar management. commissioner, this closure is obviously a symbol of everything that is wrong with europe. i think that europe really needs to impose exemplary fines on companies that lay off people for profit, when they have been receiving a whole series of public subsidies for years. these fines would help the workers who were laid off, and they would also allow the public authorities to re-qualify the sites closed by blind capitalism. it has been said that europe must reinvest in an industrial policy based on research and innovation, but i repeat once again the call to abandon austerity immediately and to invest in the real economy to create quality jobs. what the hell are we waiting for? the european globalisation adjustment fund has already seen too many human tragedies linked to the decline of industry. but he will still have to intervene massively to help caterpillar workers and their subcontractors. and given the scale of the problem and the number of workers who are stranded in a region which is already receiving european aid through the erdf, i think that its co-financing should be increased to 80% to avoid wiping out all the efforts already made. and finally, europe must take a hard line on tax havens because for more than a decade caterpillar has been shifting its profits to switzerland, all before laying off its workers. so either, in the emergency, europe protects its citizens better, strengthens the social dimension and creates fiscal justice, or its future will be behind it, because citizens will reject it en masse, and rightly so.
i have to say, madam president, 6 000 workers - men, women and children - have been on the streets since the closure of these gosselies plants by caterpillar. can that just leave us cold? no, it doesn't. was this shutdown fair? no, she's not. and, dear managers, dear managers, dear shareholders of caterpillar, you should be ashamed of yourselves! the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the workers concerned. this can be done very concretely by activating the european globalisation adjustment fund. but in the long term - this is important - we must create a fair and effective framework in europe to safeguard jobs and industrial sites in europe. i therefore see three concrete approaches: first, to combat this painful tax evasion. caterpillar is almost tax-free in switzerland, but has not worked or invested in belgium. in europe, tax is to be paid where work is done. it is a simple principle, we just have to put it into practice, and i very much support the commission which has put this proposal on the table. secondly, is it wise for public investment in industrial parks, for example, to be made virtually impossible by european accounting standards? the answer, of course, is no, it kills investment. so i have a concrete idea: let's change the so-called sec standards so that states, regions, municipalities and cities do not have to write off investments for one year, as is now required. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and thirdly, how do we ensure that industry stays in europe and grows? by creating innovative products. this is about investment in research and development. we need a lot of silicon valleys in europe. it is only at this level that we can compete with low-wage countries. we must also provide excellent education and training. we are doing this through clusters of excellence between universities and industry, as in aachen, and through dual training as a model for the whole of europe. i am not going to go into detail. we owe the workers of gosselies and all of europe a perspective. in this sense: not talk, but do!
the commissioner said that the commission had already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals were implemented. my admiration for that. you have also received a lot of criticism for it, including from your predecessor neelie kroes. the commission should not be involved in tax policy. that is a sovereign competence of the member states. the attempt by the european commission to pursue such a tax policy and to introduce european taxes is, in my view, absolutely wrong. the european peoples do not support this. what you do have support for and what you do have our full support for is what you have just done. we must have the courage to tackle unlawful state aid granted to selected companies because in a free market the consumers are in charge. consumers choose what products they buy, what services they want. they decide what and how much is produced. they determine whether a company makes a profit or a loss. it is not for politicians to decide who are the winners and who are the losers. it is not for companies, not even the big companies, to lobby for special benefits by being clever. it is good that you make it clear that large multinationals have no more rights than smaller companies. finally, as you yourself have said, it is not for this parliament to pass the final judgment. that will be up to the european court of justice. i look forward to hearing your defense in that regard and to that judgment. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the question is "blue cardboard". mr loones, it is music to my ears to hear you praise the commission. i see that he is a fellow party member of yours, if i may use that term, who is finance minister in belgium, and if you are so happy with this ruling by the commission, do you not think it is normal that belgium should be wondering about its share of the profits that have left its territory to go to ireland without being taxed? i note that belgium is not showing a lot of energy to recover its fair share of the unpaid taxes from apple.
"blue card" is the answer. no, i think we have no lessons to learn in that respect, mr lamberts, when i see what johan van overtveldt, our minister for finance, has already achieved, for example on transparency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to comply with the obligations of the treaty. we set the example. that's where we pull the cart. at the same time, i think there are questions to be asked about how far back in time we go. mrs neelie kroes has rightly opened a debate on this subject, and we must pay attention to it. we have seen this in a judgment handed down against the belgian government in connection with the profit rulings. i think we should have this debate because you're really at the intersection of tax policy and fair competition.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, i am very disturbed because, as an elected environmentalist, i am opposed to human cloning. and yet, when i see you, the desire just multiplies for the margrethe vestagers. i would like more like you - so this is a rather difficult contradiction to resolve - because, perhaps better than anyone else in the commission, you remember the very beginning of your mandate to defend the general european interest and you do it brilliantly. you are also right - and i am sure my friends in the gue will be very happy to hear it - vladimir ilyich lenin said that where there is a will, there is a way - but since angela merkel has taken up this expression, it has obviously become much more ecumenical, if i may say so. and so i really admire your work, because if you do not claim to be writing the tax law in europe, you are doing what you can not to stop the member states from waging the tax war against each other, but at least to deprive them of the most unacceptable weapons they use in this tax war, and for that i thank you. i cannot help contrasting your attitude with that of neelie kroes, who preceded you in the position you hold, who, without even knowing it, called the judgment unfair, but worse still, with the attitude of governments - i am thinking of course of the trio of tax havens called the benelux, but of course the irish government is also part of the trio - who cannot resist the urge to say: "but we do not want this money, you, the shareholders of the multinationals, keep it, we will always pump our small taxpayers, we will pump smes, we will always reduce the services of the state, because we do not want your money". i think that is simply unacceptable. i do not know how long it will take for the heads of state and government and their finance ministers to return to the primary task of defending the public interest. and it's pretty hard to reduce the public interest to defending the 1%.
madam president, it is always a pleasure to have you preside over these debates. commissioner, thank you very much for the effective fight you are waging against the tax optimisation of multinationals. today it's apple and ireland. we could call them the devilish lovers who are ready for anything, even the irreparable, because i think what they really want is to undermine the european economy, all to avoid participating in the financing of our social model, whether it be affordable and quality health care, social protection, education for all, support for employment, a sustainable economy or security for each of us. and unfortunately if it's not apple or the other multinationals that are contributing to this, well it's the small and medium-sized businesses and our citizens that have to compensate for the inquisitiveness of the multinationals, with the result that citizens and small and medium-sized businesses have to pay more taxes than they should. and all of this is for the benefit of apple, its shareholders, its executives and its american employees. and what remains for the european countries? very little, except the impression of financing the extravagant lifestyle of the firm with the apple. you know, commissioner, in 2014, the income of the six top executives of apple, all americans, peaked at 133 million euros. but for apple, the european commission is deeply mistaken, and the multinational has no intention of paying back or changing its practices. as for ireland, it's the same story, and worse, the government refuses to ask apple to pay back the 13 billion. this is not an isolated case, because, contrary to what my colleague mr sander said, a few months ago, after a condemnation by the european commission, the belgian government also refused to recover from the multinationals the refund of the amounts fraudulently paid. so we see that the commission is doing its job, but the member states are not doing theirs. this has already been noted with the report on the rules against tax evasion by multinational companies, when the states decided not to follow the recommendations of parliament and postpone the application of these measures until 2024. commissioner, should we not consider the possibility of allowing the european union to recover these sums directly from the multinationals? we could imagine putting these considerable resources back into the european budget and devoting them, for example, to the fight against tax evasion. especially as another news item that has telescoped apple's condemnation, it is the closure by caterpillar of its only headquarters in belgium, over 5,000 layoffs. in that case, caterpillar arranged its tax evasion in switzerland, not ireland, and that has to stop. we will of course be with you, commissioner, to put an end to this.
only a small number of economic migrants and asylum seekers who have been processed are actually expelled. the rate of return remains low at only 30 percent. for my party, the n-va, an effective return policy is a top priority, alongside a consistent push-back policy. migrants from non-eu countries such as africa who are in the eu illegally should therefore be returned to their own country. but these migrants usually have no papers. that's why they get an eu exit document. however, as those documents can easily be forged or counterfeited, third countries often refuse to accept those documents as valid, which hampers return. that is why this regulation is necessary. it provides for a new and more fraud-proof uniform exit document. this is an excellent first and concrete step for the n-va towards an effective expulsion policy. the eu thus provides added value in this area, while the issue of such a document remains entirely within the competence of the member states.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i am pleased to have this opportunity to discuss the proposal to streamline the prospectus directive. the proposal to reform the prospectus was one of the first actions of the capital markets union action plan. prospectuses are the gateway for companies raising capital in europe. our proposal has a simple goal: to create a simpler, faster and cheaper prospectus regime. simpler prospectuses should make it easier for companies of all sizes to raise the capital they need to grow their businesses. simpler prospectuses means that less money is spent on legal formalities and more energy can be diverted to creating businesses and jobs. i am grateful to mr ježek, the rapporteur, and the prospectus negotiating team in the committee on economic and monetary affairs for the hard work they have done on the initial proposal. i also want to acknowledge the internal market and consumer protection committee's contribution and extend my thanks to mrs ford and her colleagues in imco. a prospectus should provide clear and comparable information on company so that any company can raise capital across europe with a single document; but not all companies need to or want to raise capital across europe. this is why the harmonised prospectus should not be needed if small sums are raised locally. this is why we propose that up to eur 10 million can be raised without a prospectus. this is because requiring a harmonised prospectus for such small amounts creates disproportionate cost: up to 10% of the amount raised for equity and up to 5% for debt issuance. this, we believe, is too much money spent on a prospectus. there is no point in imposing such a costly requirement on companies wanting to raise small amounts without the benefit of a prospectus passport. we are interested in parliament's proposal for creating a tailor-made eu growth prospectus for small companies and for capital issuances up to eur 20 million. the cost of producing a prospectus must be proportionate to the investment sought. for the eu growth prospectus to be truly successful, we need to make sure that it stays as light as possible for small issuers, of course without sacrificing proper investor information. you will recall that one of the reasons we proposed a new prospectus regulation with a wider range of exemptions was because a previous, supposedly lighter regime failed to be meaningfully lighter than the full prospectus itself. the prospectus summary is particularly important for retail investors. it is an area that has worked well, and we welcome parliament's aim to streamline and simplify the summary of the prospectus further. our proposal simplified so-called secondary issuances for firms that are already listed on a stock exchange or any other regulated market, which make up a large majority, some 70% of prospectus issues. we are supportive of parliament's aim to extend these elevations further. we also welcome parliament’s suggestions regarding the need for a fast- track approval of so-called frequent issuers, because information on such issuers is already available and regularly updated. we think that the fast-track approvals for frequent issuers have a great potential to streamline recourse to capital markets and make european industry more competitive on a global scale. there will be a few issues that will still need to be discussed in trialogues, notably how the commission's proposal to make the prospectus mandatory only as of eur 10 million fits with parliament's proposal to create an eu gross prospectus that would apply for a capital raised between eur 5 and 20 million. i am confident that an appropriate solution can be found that meaningfully reduces burdens for europe's smaller companies raising capital to grow. i am grateful for parliament’s support. let us work together to have this adopted by the year end and support businesses that create jobs in europe.
president juncker said this morning, and was followed by large sections of this hemisphere: europe needs more investment. a better and more efficient investment climate is a necessary condition for this. the amendment to the prospectus legislation fits perfectly into this picture and represents a concrete, important step forward. at present european companies are still too dependent on bank loans for their financing. only 20 percent of them are getting money from investors. one of the reasons for this is the excessive administrative burden. this leads to under-exploitation of growth potential, especially in smes which, as vicky ford has said, form the backbone of our economy. a limiting factor in this story is the so-called prospectuses that companies have to draw up to inform potential investors. let 's face it . the current legislation can be improved in many areas. the requirements of the directive have made this document the size of a telephone directory. the average length of a prospectus is 700 pages. the right information is important, but we can hardly say that such a large document is encouraging for potential investors. the cost of drawing up such a prospectus is also partly due to its size, which, as rapporteur ježek has said, amounts to an average of eur 1 million. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. and with this, i think, we're helping the promising companies to climb up that so-called funding ladder and raise the capital they need to grow. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. the text now before us, ladies and gentlemen, will make it much easier for smes and start-ups to obtain funding. i will also defend this principle on behalf of the group of the european people's party in the forthcoming negotiations and i hope that cooperation will be as smooth as it was in the econ negotiations in cooperation with the shadow rapporteur.
mr president, reducing by 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty or exclusion is a major challenge facing the european union. unfortunately, let's face it, we're a long way from that. the fight against poverty is not something simple. there are many factors that need to be taken into account in combating poverty, and minimum income is one of them. but to define effective and efficient policies, we need to give a clear definition at community level of this minimum income. today, this concept is discussed in relation to social security, social protection, the universal benefit and social assistance. we need to be much clearer if we are to have effective policies. if we also want this issue to be translated into concrete action, we must take account of the socioeconomic realities of each country. finally, i would stress that this issue cannot be dealt with without the involvement and participation of the social partners. we need a strong social dialogue in europe more than ever. the question of the minimum income must be part of this social dialogue.
the rapporteur for the opinion of libe. this report shows that 16 years after the adoption of the eu's employment and occupational equality directive, there is still a lot of work to be done. progress has been made, but people with disabilities remain severely underrepresented in the labour market. less than 50 percent have a job, compared to 70 percent for people without disabilities. a broad, comprehensive approach is therefore still needed in all areas, using the concept of reasonable adjustments. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. for example, disabled workers often face all kinds of obstacles, including administrative ones, that non-disabled workers do not face. this is unacceptable! finally, i am pleased that the report refers to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, the only universal human rights convention that the european union has so far ratified.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i thank marian harkin for the work she and the co-rapporteurs have done, and i also want to thank the commissioner for her announcement yesterday that neets would indeed be extended at the level of the european globalisation adjustment fund. i thank her for the action she has taken. the egf is indeed helping workers who have lost their jobs as a result of major changes in the world trade structure. it is therefore clear that in the context of globalisation as we are experiencing it today, we must defend this instrument, and even strengthen it, because everyone knows that there are winners in globalisation, but there are also more and more losers. i therefore call for more resources, but also for increased levels of intervention and for the exceptional circumstances clause to be activated so that aid can be modulated according to the needs on the ground. i also call for more prevention and i am a little puzzled by what mrs thyssen has just said. she said the european globalisation adjustment fund should not be used to compensate for trade policies. but mrs malmström says the opposite. in her general policy, mrs malmström has included the need to use the european globalisation adjustment fund to offset the negative effects of trade. what is particularly interesting is that in the trade impact studies mrs malmström says that there are no negative effects. so it's quite unusual to hear such divergent speeches. in yesterday's debate on africa, the same alarm was sounded: there are no negative effects on agriculture. but we know there are negative effects. if we deny them, we cannot anticipate them. i would urge that they be recognized sincerely and that we can actually anticipate these negative effects to help industry rather than helping workers who have lost their jobs when there are no more opportunities for them.
the applicant. like previous speakers, i would like to point out that the philippines is plagued by a bloody war on drugs. since president duterte came to power, more than 1,800 drug dealers have been killed. during the same period, police killed 712 people on suspicion of drug trafficking and drug use, often without cause and without trial. and that in the philippines, a country with which we as the european union have always had good relations. now the philippines has become a police state where arbitrariness reigns and where human rights are of little value. admittedly, president duterte had already announced in his campaign that he would call on the people to take matters into their own hands. drug users have been turned into a deer in the headlights by that call and inflammatory language. the philippines is indeed plagued by drugs, but let us demand that the president conduct the war on drugs within a legal framework and in a humane manner. and also ask that the death penalty not be re-imposed. that is a constant battlefield for us europeans. the rule of law must not be compromised, not even when it comes to the fight against drugs. i have no illusions, colleagues. perhaps president duterte will now, as a result of this resolution, also insult us, as happened to us president obama, ban ki-moon and the pope. but it's worth it. the war on drugs is also bound by rules and respect for human rights. that is essential for us liberals.
mr. president, since taking office in june 2016, president duterte has been working hard to rid his country of the scourge of drugs. that's over 3,000 people who have already died without a chance of a fair trial. whether they are sellers or consumers, there is no distinction. the president doesn't give them a chance. most of them were executed without any trial, without any discernment. this war on drugs is the president's real workhorse and he's doing everything he can to achieve it. respect for human rights and therefore the right to life does not therefore stand in the way of his ambition to see 100 000 criminals eliminated during the first six months of his mandate. it has also left the door open for civilian vigilantes to kill with impunity, if it is in the framework of this great project to eradicate drugs in the philippines. president duterte's landslide election victory and his enormous popularity among the filipino people must not dissuade him from respecting basic human rights, and the emergency in the philippines is such that the european union cannot leave its relations with the philippines unchanged.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the appointment of julian king to replace lord hill as european commissioner.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the appointment of sir julian king as commissioner for the security union. my group and i had no doubts about the competence of the commissioner-designate and that he had the necessary qualifications to fill the post. however, hearings in parliament are not only intended to assess the personal qualities of the candidate, but also the political context and thus the suitability of the candidate for a particular portfolio. in this respect, we considered that the allocation of the union security portfolio to julian king raises questions given that the united kingdom will soon begin the procedures to leave the eu and that it has always sought and obtained opt-outs under the justice and home affairs measures. i am, however, pleased that mr juncker has created this new portfolio in the commission. as commissioner for the security union, julian king's role will be to support the implementation of the european security agenda and to contribute to an operational and effective security union, which i have long advocated.
in writing. ‒ this report is about the eu commission's proposal to introduce a single travel document for non-eu citizens who do not have a valid passport or identity card. the travel document is intended to speed up the return and readmission of third-country nationals who are in the eu illegally. in order to prevent counterfeiting, the new travel documents should be marked with strict security features so that the document can be recognised unconditionally by third countries. i have agreed to the report because i expect the introduction of the new document to reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burdens which are currently imposed on member states and third countries alike. the document also aims to help to counter the low rate of enforcement of return decisions. i also believe that the introduction of the document will be an important step towards reducing and combating irregular migration.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which aims to establish the common model and the technical and security specifications of the harmonised european travel document for the return of third-country nationals staying illegally in the territory of the union. the report stresses the essential need to respect the principles recognised by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and, in particular, human dignity, in cases of removal, expulsion and extradition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. return is an essential element of the overall action to ensure the credibility and the proper functioning of the union's migration policy and to reduce and prevent illegal immigration. since some third-country nationals staying illegally in the union do not have valid travel documents, member states face serious difficulties in ensuring their safe and legal return to their country of destination. it is therefore necessary to promote the acceptance by third countries of a harmonised european passport. however, the current model travel document for return is not accepted by all authorities of third countries, in particular due to the lack of harmonised and adequate technical specifications and safety standards. a more secure and harmonised european travel document should therefore be established, as the strengthening of its security and technical elements should facilitate its recognition by third countries.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this legislation on the creation of a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals, for which i represented the liberals in the european parliament. this european document with enhanced security parameters should be more likely to be recognised by third countries that are expected to readmit irregular persons. as the union faces the refugee crisis and must honour its moral and legal obligations in terms of international protection, it is imperative to strengthen the effectiveness and coherence of our asylum policy. increasing the implementation of return decisions for persons subject to a return decision is an essential tool for achieving this objective. less than 40% of return decisions are enforced across the union. it is time to address these shortcomings that undermine the credibility of european asylum policy. the recognition of this new return document by third countries should therefore be systematically encouraged when concluding readmission agreements. the commission's examination of the effectiveness of this new document on return policy will be given full attention.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on a european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals. this regulation creates a better travel document for the future, which will be more widely used by member states and recognised by third countries. this will make it easier to return.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the return of persons who do not qualify for international protection within the union must be a priority for the european union. improving the rate of return of irregular migrants is essential for the integrity of the union's asylum system, for cooperation between the member states of the union and third countries, and for maintaining the trust of union citizens. a long-term solution is needed to stabilise the current migration crisis, to relieve pressure on member states and union agencies, and to increase capacity and resources within the european union.
in writing. ‒ a return policy for illegal migrants is an essential part of the union's broader approach to migration policy and serves to reduce and discourage irregular migration. member states face difficulties in returning illegal migrants who do not have valid travel documents. the commission is proposing a regulation which, according to the ep, should harmonise only the format, security features and technical specifications of the european travel document for return, and not the rules for its issuance. i voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the prospectus rules is a key element of the capital markets union and aims to facilitate financing via the capital markets, reduce the administrative burden for companies producing a prospectus and make the prospectus a key source of information for potential investors. the report adopted by parliament and the council will certainly contribute to achieving these objectives. in particular, i welcome the new provisions on the eu growth prospectus, which should make it easier for smes to access finance on the capital markets.
in writing. ‒ the revision of the prospectus directive is an important step in the construction of the capital markets union. the eu harmonised prospectus is the 'gateway' to european capital markets for issuers seeking funding. the action plan for the establishment of a capital markets union presents a comprehensive and ambitious programme of measures to strengthen the role of financing by financial markets in the european economy. one of the major objectives of the cmu is to facilitate the mobilisation of capital on the capital markets. these markets provide access to a wide range of funders and provide an outlet for private equity funds investing in early stage companies. prospectuses are documents required by law which provide information about a company. this information forms the basis on which investors decide whether to invest in the various securities issued by the company in question.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of this report which aims to strengthen the rules on prospectuses that a company must publish to inform potential investors. these measures are designed to strengthen the capital markets union. the aim is to create a prospectus containing the information needed to properly evaluate the desired investment in a security. access to information is essential if we are to create a trusting environment conducive to investment and hence growth. the european parliament has adopted an ambitious position calling for a genuine european harmonisation of the system. however, we will now have to go back to negotiating with the council if this legislation is to be brought to fruition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the negotiating position on the commission proposal for a regulation amending the rules governing the prospectus that a european company must publish when it wishes to raise capital. the text gives special importance to smes by allowing them to produce a reduced version of the prospectus. in addition, member states are allowed to exempt securities issues of less than eur 5 million.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or with a view to their admission to trading. the text fills the legislative gaps in this area.
in writing. ‒ in this resolution, parliament calls for the rejection of a commission proposal which includes the abandonment of 54,000 places in the programme for the resettlement of refugees from italy and greece to the territory of other member states and the resettlement of the same number of syrian refugees from turkey to the eu (in accordance with the eu-turkey agreement). the house also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. this is the only way to reduce the migratory pressure on member states at their external borders and at the same time to counter illegal immigration by opening safe and legal pathways to the eu. i too rejected the commission's proposal, because i believe that it is urgently necessary to carry out emergency resettlement from greece and italy to other eu member states in order to combat the emergency situation in greece and the risk of a deterioration of the situation in italy. i also believe that the resettlement programme is an instrument of solidarity and should not be confused with the resettlement scheme. i also continue to advocate the fair distribution of refugees and i deeply regret that there are still countries which have not yet taken in a single refugee.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which states that relocations should only apply to applicants of syrian, iraqi, eritrean or afghan nationality or to those who have a nationality for which the share of decisions granting international protection is equal to or greater than 75%. the report also stresses that resettlement should not be at the expense of relocation, which is a form of internal solidarity between member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution giving parliament's opinion on the proposal for a council decision amending the decision establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. the resolution rejects the commission's proposal to take the 54 000 places in the plan for the relocation of refugees from greece and italy to other member states and use them to resettle syrians from turkey in the eu, in accordance with the eu-turkey agreement. the parliament's view is that the intra-eu relocation plan should not be confused with the resettlement plan and that 'resettlement should not take place at the expense of relocation'. member states must deliver on their promises to greece and italy to relieve migration pressure, while discouraging irregular entries by creating safe and legal routes. the text also highlights the small percentage of people who have been relocated so far. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's objection to the commission's proposal to reallocate the places originally earmarked for relocation to resettlement. these are two different procedures. solidarity between member states and solidarity towards third countries should not be substituted for each other. all commitments made in relation to relocation must be honoured. with greece and italy still facing a considerable challenge, solidarity between member states needs to be strengthened. it is therefore not appropriate to fulfil our resettlement commitments to turkey at the expense of those made to italy and greece. the resettlement of people from turkey by member states should not reduce our commitments in terms of relocation. on the other hand, our solidarity with third countries on the front line of the refugee crisis must be very real. resettlement is a tool to be given priority in this respect and for which the union must adopt an ambitious policy. the new european resettlement programme must therefore live up to our duty of solidarity with these third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution establishing provisional measures on international protection for the benefit of italy and greece. this is a strong signal that reaffirms the need to respect the commission's relocation plan in view of the thousands of people who are stranded in greece and italy or who arrive in these countries every day. it is essential to set up a european relocation system that is fair and gives hope to these thousands of people in need.
in writing. ‒ the n-va is in favour of relocation as the final piece of an adequate border policy. the n-va nevertheless supports the fragmented commission proposal this time, as it reorients relocation places an existing obligation to follow up on the eu-turkey agreement. the proposal is to use certain already provided places for the one-on-one relocation, thus further implementing that necessary agreement. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the union's programmes in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the n-va voted against the parliament's resolution because it takes advantage of the opportunity to take advantage of the original council decision on relocation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the distribution of afghans among eu member states and to introduce a wide range of measures to promote family reunification.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the excellent text by my colleague ska keller on the proposal for a council decision amending council decision (eu) 2015/1601 of 22 september 2015 establishing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece.
in writing. ‒ the report contains the ep's amendments to the commission's proposal for a decision on the refugees/migrants/asylum seekers currently being hosted in italy and greece. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that something must be done urgently to address the untenable reception situation in both countries.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which underlines the court of auditors' findings that almost all workers eligible under the egf have been able to benefit from personalised and well-coordinated measures tailored to their individual needs and that almost 50% of workers who have benefited from assistance under the egf have now returned to work. in the face of the social damage caused by deregulated capitalism, the egf is a necessary tool which has helped thousands of workers who have been made redundant. but, as the scandalous closure of caterpillar has shown once again, we must act very quickly to prevent these social and human tragedies. europe must punish firms that make redundancies severely. it must take strong action to end tax avoidance and the role of tax havens. finally, it must redevelop an industrial policy based on activities rich in innovation and research and development which are not easily offshored. this must of course be accompanied by a revival of public investment and thus of demand within the union.
in writing. the european model is social. the fight against poverty and unemployment is an integral part of all union policies. thus, vocational training and job creation are at the heart of the commission's priorities for inclusive and sustainable growth. although the responsibility for employment remains with the member states, nothing prevents the european parliament, representing the voice of 508 million citizens, from building a european social project. society is changing, the family is transforming, creating new social needs. our national social systems are still too much based on outdated models. we need to be ambitious. we must continue our efforts, particularly in the direction of employment for young people and small and medium-sized enterprises. in this sense, we are making a point of making ourselves heard by the council through this report mentioning the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, which i support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's position on the employment guidelines which define the scope of member states' policies to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i am also pleased that a priority has been added this year on reconciling family and working life. i also regret that the council very rarely takes account of the amendments proposed by the european parliament to improve these guidelines. i urge the council to attach particular importance to the amendments proposed by parliament in this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal by my colleague laura agea on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the european parliament and the european council disagree on the guidelines that the eu should give to its member states to boost employment.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which welcomes the union's accession to cites and considers it a fundamental step forward for the union's continuation of cites' efforts to protect endangered species of wild fauna and flora. among other initiatives, the report also calls on the union to adopt legislation to reduce illicit trade by making it illegal to import, export, sell or acquire wild animals or plants caught, possessed, transported or sold in breach of the law of the country of origin or transit.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the cites resolution, which rightly stresses the importance of upholding existing rules and fighting corruption. in the light of the johannesburg meeting, i would call on the commission and the member states to support a ban on ivory trade, without any backtracking: after all, illegal ivory always finds its way into the legal circuit. we must put a stop to this, because illegal trade is deadly for biodiversity. a recent great elephant census shows that between 2007 and 2014, 30% of africa's savanna elephants were killed. that's as many as 144,000 elephants. the description of elephants as "living dinosaurs" is therefore particularly apt. but the illegal trade has other disastrous and often deadly consequences: the eu is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. in addition, trade is growing dramatically: the illegal ivory trade has tripled since 1998. a strong fight against these criminal activities is needed to ensure the protection of species and safety. the eu can and must make a difference. we're the ones who are involved. this was proved again a few days ago by a record catch of 1.2 tonnes in germany.
illegal trade in endangered species is the third largest organised crime activity after drug, human and arms trafficking. this transnational crime has not only immense consequences for biodiversity; illegal trade is detrimental to local economic development, fuels corruption and is used by militias as a source of conflict financing. the eu is a major destination market and transit port for endangered animal and plant species. the eu, which has joined cites, is seeking to step up its efforts to combat illegal trade with its own action plan against wildlife trafficking. the resolution calls for the promotion of initiatives under cites to establish global guidelines to reduce poaching and illegal trade, to establish better international controls and to ensure effective international prosecution of those who commit criminal activities involving wildlife. it is hopeful, however, that at the johannesburg meeting a large number of african countries will send a signal of their determination to stop the extinction of the african elephant.
in writing. ‒ the european union joined cites 11 months ago. a vital step forward, and there is still much work to be done! every time one species improves, like the giant panda, another is added to the iucn red list of critically endangered species. this is the case of the eastern great gorilla, which has been the victim of intensive poaching in the democratic republic of congo and is now in great danger. the eu has a vital role to play in johannesburg. it must dare to challenge certain strategic partners, such as china and japan, and bring up the sensitive issue of trade in elephant ivory, rhino horn and tiger bone. europe, as an important transit market, must set an example. it is unacceptable that in some eu countries those involved in this criminal trafficking are only subject to minimum penalties, namely fines of up to eur 15 000 in a majority of member states, while rhino horn on the black market is sold for eur 51 000 per kilo. the penalties must be harmonised and exemplary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the union's strategic objectives for the 17th session of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), to be held from 24 september to 5 october 2016 in johannesburg, south africa. wildlife trafficking has become a form of transnational organised crime that is seriously damaging the world's biodiversity. the european union must play an important role in this fight. in this respect, i welcome the eu's financial contribution to cites. however, vigilance must continue on the delicate issue of legal and illegal trade in the marketing of species and their derivatives.
in writing. ‒ with this text, we welcome the union's accession to cites. this accession is a fundamental step forward in ensuring that the union pursues the broader objectives of its environmental policies and the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, as well as the promotion of the sustainable development policies of the united nations 2030 agenda.
in writing. ‒ the 2008 postal review has delivered important objectives in the liberalisation of postal services in europe. however, since the full opening of the postal sector in 2008, postal services have changed significantly. firstly, paper-based communication has declined in many member states. the number of letters sent is declining throughout the eu. on the other hand, new technologies have made online shopping more convenient, which has led to an increase in the number of parcels and parcels transported by postal companies. as a result, parcel and express revenues now account for more than half of the total revenues in the postal sector. one of the commission's core tasks is to promote and protect effective competition in the postal sector. the eu postal sector continues to make a key contribution to social, economic and territorial cohesion and to the development of the digital single market. affordable and reliable postal and parcel delivery services remain of paramount importance for the internal market. i agree with parliament's position, particularly in view of the intention to maintain universal services in order to take account of the local characteristics of rural areas. access to postal services must continue to be guaranteed at a high quality level, meeting the needs of users.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the importance of providing a high quality universal service at affordable prices, with at least five days of delivery and five days of collection per week for every citizen. it also stressed the need to improve geographical coverage and accessibility of universal parcel delivery services, in particular for people with disabilities and reduced mobility and people living in remote areas.
in writing. postal services have undergone impressive changes since the full opening of the postal market in 2008: paper-based communications have decreased while parcels and express mail have increased following online purchases. the 2008 postal services directive needs to be adapted again in order to meet the needs and expectations of european consumers. good postal services are essential for communication in the european union's internal market. our policy at european level is not only to complete the internal market for postal services, but also to ensure that all citizens and businesses have access to efficient, reliable and high-quality postal services at affordable rates throughout the eu. i therefore support the development and implementation of a regulatory framework that provides quality universal services with minimum flexibility. the key is to maintain the right balance between economic prosperity, social welfare and eu cohesion. this is only possible through the establishment of independent regulatory authorities as provided for in this new directive.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the implementation of the postal services directive, as it contains important recommendations. i am totally in favour of maintaining universal service and i categorically reject the proliferation of discriminatory policies based on population density, as is the case in italy. as i live in a rural area with a population density below the national average, i will always campaign for services, including postal services, to be identical to those provided in other areas. i also support the recommendations to improve crossborder postal services and to combat the deterioration of working conditions. while it is important to continually improve the quality of postal services, this cannot be done at the expense of working conditions. finally, i would mention the important paragraph which aims to promote the installation of tachographs on board transport vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes. we must protect workers and actively combat social dumping. i regret that the ecr group voted against this report after the introduction of this paragraph.
in writing. ‒ the 2008 postal services review has achieved the main objectives of the liberalisation of european postal services. however, postal services have undergone enormous changes since the full opening of the postal services market in 2008. on the one hand, paper-based communications have declined in many member states. the number of letters decreased in the european union and between 2012 and 2013, the average rate of decrease in the eu-28 was 4.85%. on the other hand, new technologies facilitate online purchases and therefore increase the number of parcels and parcels carried by postal operators. as a result, parcel and express revenue now accounts for more than half of total postal revenue. one of the commission's main tasks is to promote and maintain effective competition in the postal services sector. promoting greater competition in this sector is also important to achieve the europe 2020 objectives for sustainable growth in a resource-efficient and more competitive economy.
‒ the postal services directive provides member states with the necessary scope to respond to specific local characteristics and to ensure that the provision of universal services remains sustainable in the long term. i voted for this report because it keeps the focus on the needs of users and responds to changes in the technical, economic and social fields.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and midcap companies are an essential part of the eu economy. this is why access to finance for smes has been on the political agenda for a long time. during the crisis, access to finance for smes was significantly more restricted than for larger companies. the large dependence of smes on bank loans and the refinancing of banks' loan book triggered by the crisis have contributed to this. this is why diversifying the financing opportunities for smes is one of the priorities of the capital markets union initiative. smes must remain competitive. i therefore strongly support facilitating and facilitating access to alternative sources of finance. many smes are now dependent on bank loans. as access to such loans has been significantly hampered by the financial crisis, it is important that smes have better access to alternative sources of finance. this is the only way to ensure that they remain capable of making investments.
in writing. ‒ i would like to recall in the preamble that smes accounted for 67% of jobs, 71.4% of employment growth and 58% of value added in the non-financial sector in the european union in 2014 and that 77% of sme funding in europe came from banks. the issue of access to finance for smes cannot therefore be ignored, as is the question of sustainability and development of employment. i voted in favour of this report because it calls on the commission to support the development of a wide range of programmes, instruments and initiatives to support smes in their start-up and growth phases, taking into account their specificity and financing needs. the commission is also called upon to ensure synergies between the various european instruments and programmes for smes, to promote a comprehensive approach to disseminating information on all eu funding opportunities and to make funding more attractive to smes. in this respect, the importance of the development of local banks is also to be emphasised, given their long-standing relationships with smes.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, parliament focused on access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the european union. it called for clarification of the conditions for obtaining loans for them, for certain information on banks and investors to be made publicly available, and for a transparent and efficient taxation system to be put in place to attract investment. smes account for 99% of enterprises in europe and are performing well. the wealth they produce has caught up with pre-crisis levels, up 2.4% on 2008. they also create most of the jobs in the private sector. it is therefore particularly crucial to support these small structures and to facilitate their access to finance. encouraging smes and employment in europe is at the heart of parliament's concerns, and this is demonstrated once again by today's unambiguous vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of two reports which deal with the question of small and medium-sized enterprises. the first report deals with the issue of access to finance for smes and the enhancement of the diversity of sme finance in a capital markets union, while the second looks at ways of making the most of the job creation potential of smes. smes are vital to the economic growth of our continent and represent 99% of businesses in europe. it is important to be able to take account of their specificities in the legislative process, but never, and i stress this, to call into question social and environmental standards.
in writing. - i voted for the text. the tax system has a strong influence on the self-financing capacity of smes. it should be stressed that a simple and fair tax system, which ensures a level playing field for all businesses, is the best way to guarantee the development of smes. it should be noted that this is not just a question of corporate taxation, but that income taxation also plays an important role.
in writing. ‒ given the many forms of smes, including micro-enterprises, their financing needs are best served by a diverse, well-regulated and stable financial services sector that offers a wide range of cost-effective and tailor-made financing options, and allows for sustainable long-term development. i voted in favour of this report, which stresses that in this context the importance of traditional banking models, including small regional banks, savings cooperatives and public institutions, must be borne in mind, and that in terms of financing equal attention should be paid to improving access to finance for micro-enterprises and sole proprietors.
in writing. – i strongly support this motion for a resolution on the report on access to finance for smes. as the resolution states, mid-caps and smes are a very important part of our economy. it recognises the role of the capital markets union in making available new options for sme financing. this is needed as the eu inhibits a great variety of smes that all have different financing needs, depending on their size, rate of growth, future plans and stage of development. currently, there are still many barriers to their making use of such financing sources. this resolution and adjoining report aim to remove or lower the barriers. traditionally, banks have played an important role in sme financing, and they will continue to do so. we therefore need to ensure that banks have sufficient lending capacity. it is my belief that a stable banking sector and a strong capital markets union will lead to stronger smes and, in turn, to economic growth.
in writing. ‒ given the current high level of unemployment and migration flows, the eu has a fundamental task to improve the conditions for job creation in all eu member states, both in the periphery and in the centre. the eu's economic structure is based primarily on small and medium-sized enterprises, which create new jobs and are considered the engine of the union's economy. over the last decade, 85% of jobs in the eu have been created by smes. smes should therefore be the focus of enterprise policy in the european union and all necessary steps should be taken to strengthen the job creation potential of this sector. this can only be done on the basis of a thorough examination of the obstacles which exist. the report contains such an examination of the problem. eastern belgium is also affected by a general shortage of skilled workers or by problems in the training and further education of workers. i therefore support the report by parliament on the further development of methods to help exploit the potential of smes in terms of job creation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to support smes in order to develop a sustainable economic fabric, close to the citizens, of human scale and creating jobs that cannot be relocated. it should be remembered that although almost 99% of european companies are smes and smes create more jobs than other private sector companies (about two thirds of all private sector jobs in the eu), they often do not enjoy the same advantages as multinational companies, whether in terms of taxation, economies of scale or access to technology. the report therefore calls on the member states to adopt the principle of taxing income where it is generated and other measures to counter tax-optimising practices by multinationals. meps also believe that the administrative burden on smes should be reduced, while ensuring that employees are adequately protected in terms of health and safety, and that smes should be given limited access to finance and new technologies.
in writing. in the last ten years, smes have accounted for 85% of new jobs in europe. in this way, small and mediumsized enterprises guarantee two thirds of total employment. moreover, these companies have shown that they are more resilient to job losses in periods of economic downturn. as such, they make such an important contribution to the eu's socioeconomic growth and development that they deserve priority in the eu's industrial policy. but smes also face major challenges. the report is noteworthy for its thorough analysis of the problems facing smes. in addition to the well-known problems, such as the risk of over-regulation or high labour costs, the skills shortage, the low capacity for innovation, the limited internationalisation and the limited access to finance for smes need to be addressed. that is why in my amendments to this report i have asked the commission to make efforts to encourage more smes to export. i also stressed the need to instill a strong entrepreneurial culture in education from an early age and to better match training and skills acquired with the demands of the labour market.
in writing. ‒ parliament voted 528 to 77 (with 44 abstentions) to call for a significant reduction in the administrative burden on smes and asked the commission to always give priority to the impact of new eu legislation on the situation of smes before approving them. smes account for 99% of enterprises in europe, and nine out of ten smes have fewer than 10 employees. european smes are an opportunity. they are performing well and the wealth they create has caught up with pre-crisis levels, up 2.4% on 2008. it is therefore particularly crucial to make progress on simplifying administrative and tax procedures for these small structures. encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in europe is at the heart of parliament's concerns, and this is demonstrated once again by the unequivocal vote this afternoon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of two reports which deal with the question of small and medium-sized enterprises. the first report deals with the issue of access to finance for smes and the enhancement of the diversity of sme finance in a capital markets union, while the second looks at how to make the most of the job creation potential of smes. smes are vital to the economic growth of our continent and represent 99% of businesses in europe. it is important to be able to take account of their specificities in the legislative process, but never, and i stress this, to call into question social and environmental standards.
in writing. ‒ smes offer a cooperative model that should be promoted, as it has already proven its sustainability and resilience in recent years. in addition to improving the competitiveness of smes, as discussed earlier this week, the focus of this report is on access to finance for smes under the 'think small first' principle, on reducing administrative burdens and on the problems of undeclared work and the more favourable treatment of multinationals. all this with a view to making the most of the potential of smes in terms of job creation. the report stresses that adequate employment and social protection must be ensured to guarantee sustainable employment. the difficulties and uncertainties of starting a business, especially by young people, are also highlighted. the report also calls for tackling skills shortages, validating informal learning and improving cooperation between workers and the education sector. the report is very balanced and takes account of all the green issues: the green economy, the social economy and solidarity, youth, employment and social protection. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the 'labour market paradox': around 2 million jobs are struggling to be filled due to the inadequacy of the labour force in europe. other jobs in smes could be saved if entrepreneurs could avoid closing their businesses, notably because of low capitalisation, late payment by contractors, complex succession and transfer procedures, unfair competition in the underground economy and certain abusive practices by multinational companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report to better exploit the potential of our smes. at the european parliament's insistence, the european commission is beginning to pay increasing attention to smes as a driver of prosperity and job creation. i applaud you.
in writing. – because our smes are an important part of our economy, this also means that they contribute significantly to job creation. it is therefore important that their growth potential can be optimised. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. i strongly welcome its recognition of the smes’ importance, having provided the majority of all workplaces in the eu in the past ten years. in order to support them, specific measures and/or requirements are mentioned, such as a stable regulatory environment, and improved quality of regulation and actual enforcement. overregulation and administrative burdens have to be removed whenever possible and should be avoided at all times. doing so will especially benefit the sme’s and level the playing field between them and larger corporations.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaty on european union, the values on which the european union is founded are respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. the fight against social exclusion and discrimination is a duty of the european union. fifteen years have passed since the adoption of the employment equality directive; the ultimate objective of the directive is to create a level playing field in the field of equal opportunities in employment and occupation. however, challenges remain in the implementation of the employment equality directive. europe must ensure that exclusion and discrimination against people are combated, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity. i therefore welcome the creation of further measures which contribute to the achievement of equal treatment in employment and occupation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. in view of the need to increase future participation in the labour market and to ensure long-term income security, it is important to find better solutions for reconciling work and family life, including caring for a family member. the rapporteur therefore hopes that the 2013 annual report of the commission's social protection committee, which states that the organisation of a long-term care system will play a decisive role in terms of participation in society and the labour market, will soon be transposed into practice. discrimination affects all aspects of people's lives and employment is just one of them. any evolution implies change and our society must adapt to the current cultural contexts. the working environment must also be adapted; to do this, the commission and the member states should not only focus on legislation, but also on creating a work culture and on the well-being of everyone.
in writing. discrimination occurs in all aspects of life. employment, working conditions and working conditions are examples of cases where inequality of treatment of people is still too common. in 2000, the european directive on equal treatment in employment and occupation was adopted. the aim was to achieve a common approach to employment and occupational treatment in europe and to better equip and protect people against all forms of discrimination on grounds of sex, race, descent, sexual orientation, disability, religion or belief and age. sixteen years later, people are more aware of their rights in the event of discrimination. but at the same time we must recognize that too few cases of discrimination are actually reported and that some grounds of discrimination receive more attention than others. it is therefore necessary to identify, prevent and combat all forms of discrimination, including indirect discrimination, at all times, through data collection, public awareness raising and legislative and non-legislative initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report to assess the implementation of the equal treatment directive 2000/78/ec. the directive, adopted 16 years ago, sets out a general framework to ensure equal treatment of people at the workplace, regardless of their religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. in this resolution, the european parliament calls in particular for the adoption of european frameworks for the implementation of national strategies to combat anti-semitism and islamophobia. this is an important demand in the current context of rising populism.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report by renate weber deals with the 2000 directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation. the directive requires member states to provide protection against all forms of discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation in employment and occupation. the changing political climate of fear of unemployment and the refugee crisis is increasing racism and discrimination, including in the labour market. the european parliament called on the council to adopt the horizontal anti-discrimination directive without delay. in addition, consistent application of anti-discrimination legislation is important in preventative strategies against radicalisation. the report also refers to the need to protect disabled workers and advocates the use of socially responsible public procurement. in addition, member states should do more to protect transgender people and whistleblowers, use gender budgeting and organise strong national labour inspections. we also call on the commission to make new legislative proposals to strengthen the maternity directive, the care leave directive and the paternity leave legislation. for me, this is the evidence of the 21st century, and that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. in view of the need to increase future participation in the labour market and to ensure long-term income security, it is important to find better solutions for reconciling work and family life, including caring for a family member. the rapporteur therefore hopes that the 2013 annual report of the commission's social protection committee, which states that the organisation of a long-term care system will play a decisive role in terms of participation in society and the labour market, will soon be transposed into practice. discrimination affects all aspects of people's lives and employment is just one of them. any evolution implies change and our society must adapt to the current cultural contexts. the working environment must also be adapted; to do this, the commission and the member states should not only focus on legislation, but also on creating a work culture and on the well-being of everyone.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the application of the equal treatment directive in employment and occupation. i voted for this report because it touches on some important issues such as discrimination, freedom of religion, lgbti issues, people with disabilities, age requirements, etc. it also stresses that the legislative process should take account of the administrative burden on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises at all levels and that planned measures should be subject to a proportionality test.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was originally set up by regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 to help workers who had lost their jobs as a result of mass redundancies. the scope of the fund was extended to cover workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis between 2009 and 2011 and for the period from 2013 onwards. since 2013, self-employed persons have also been covered. the main objective of this report is to review the activities, impact and added value of the fund for the period 2007-2014. the aim is also to assess the strengths and weaknesses of the reforms introduced during this period. it is important to measure such added value in order to be able to verify whether policies at union level, such as the egf in this case, are justified or need to be challenged. i believe that it is still absolutely necessary to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of mass redundancies in the context of structural changes in the world trade structure. in the long term, however, it is also essential to create a fair and effective framework in europe in order to safeguard jobs and industrial sites in europe in a sustainable way.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which underlines the court of auditors' findings that almost all workers eligible under the egf have been able to benefit from personalised and well-coordinated measures tailored to their individual needs, and that almost 50% of workers who have benefited from assistance under the egf have now returned to work. in the face of the social damage caused by deregulated capitalism, the egf is a necessary tool which has helped thousands of workers who have been made redundant. but, as the scandalous closure of caterpillar has shown once again, we must act very quickly to prevent these social and human tragedies. europe must punish severely firms that carry out redundancies. it must take strong action to end tax avoidance and the role of tax havens. finally, it must redevelop an industrial policy based on activities rich in innovation and research and development, which are not easily offshored. this must of course be accompanied by a revival of public investment, and thus demand, within the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the evaluation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). i note that the egf has overall provided well-coordinated measures for redundant workers, is well managed and plays an important role in improving the employment prospects of thousands of citizens at a time of cascading industrial accidents, the latest examples being caterpillar and alstom. in this context, this tool is essential. one of its benefits is that it provides personalised support to redundant workers. it should also be noted that the egf provides for the possibility of intervening in favour of young people who are not in education, employment or training. this helps to ensure that regions with high youth unemployment can benefit from european solidarity. of course, there is room for improvement: eu governments should be asked to do more to use the flexibility of the current fund to help workers made redundant by subcontractors, who are most often smes. it is also very important that there is genuine participation of workers or their representatives, social partners and other stakeholders in decisions on implementation.
in writing. as the events we know are hitting caterpillar, the european globalisation adjustment fund is making sense. this is a real help to people who have lost their jobs so that they can re-enter other growth sectors. but the union's social action must not stop there. the commission will need to be more proactive and carry out impact assessments, highlighting the potential effects of deals such as caterpillar on employment and competitiveness and the consequences for smes. the fund cannot replace a genuine policy of prevention and anticipation of restructuring. the european social fund and the juncker plan must therefore directly complement the globalisation adjustment fund to ensure the sustainability of european industrial activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014. let us be clear: this european globalisation adjustment fund cannot in any way replace a serious policy of preventing and anticipating restructuring. as such, i am always in favour of the establishment of a genuine industrial policy at european level. the recent announcement of the intention to close the caterpillar plant in gosselies reminds us that the road to reindustrialisation is still long and requires real political will, to be translated into legislative acts now! as regards the evaluation of this fund, i am concerned that the gef has had very limited effects on smes. the commission should redirect the egf more towards smes by making greater use of the threshold exemption.
in writing. ‒ marian harkin's own-initiative report looks at the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) between 2007 and 2014. this european fund was set up to support workers made redundant as a result of major unforeseen structural changes in the labour market as a result of world trade. the fund can be called upon by the member states for a minimum of 500 outputs and has a total budget of eur 150 million per year to co-finance up to 60% of the costs. between 2007 and 2014, there were 134 applications from 20 member states, representing 122 121 affected workers. the report calls for the european commission to anticipate the effects of trade agreements on the labour market and for greater coordination between the trade and employment services. this meagre fund should not be seen as a social safety net to prevent future trade agreements from having a negative impact on employment. furthermore, member states should use these funds in their services to redundant workers to promote a resource-efficient and sustainable economy. the fund shall not relieve member states of their obligations in respect of redundant workers. these are all recommendations that put the interests of the employee first. that's why i'm voting for it.
in writing. ‒ originally, financial assistance was intended for 'active labour market measures which form part of a coordinated package of personalised services aimed at the reintegration of workers who have lost their jobs' (§1). in the 2013 regulation, this scope was extended to include 'reintegration into the labour market, whether as an employed or self-employed person, in particular, of disadvantaged, elderly or young unemployed persons'. eligible actions include tailor-made training and retraining, job-search assistance, sponsorship, promotion of entrepreneurship, support for self-employment, for the creation and resumption of businesses by employees, as well as mobility allowances, subsistence or training allowances. the financing of all eligible actions is conditional on the active participation of the targeted beneficiaries in job-search or training activities. in addition, actions which fall under the responsibility of enterprises under national law or collective agreements, as well as passive social protection measures, cannot be financed.
mr president, i believe that the question raised in the hungarian referendum is a european issue. the reactions observed in the hungarian citizenry are reactions that are observed elsewhere in europe. so i think it is quite appropriate that we take a moment to reflect on what has happened in hungary, but from a truly european perspective. this should not be a finger-pointing festival - i can't find the right word for it in english - but rather an exercise in collective reflection on how we address the challenge of migration and refugees. i think it will be quite clear from the debate that we can only remedy this together, or rather, i would say, face it.
mr president, the eu-acp framework represents a unique and privileged partnership between europe and its partners in africa, the caribbean and the pacific. sixteen years later, the clock is ticking. the sometimes too divergent characteristics of the various regions have led to under-exploitation of the cotonou institutions. yet they offer a unique opportunity for dialogue, exchange and cooperation between regions of the world that share so many common challenges. i therefore believe that it will be essential to revise the framework for cooperation in order to take greater account of the regional specificities of each party. it seems to me that we can work around four priorities. the first of these is that the future framework will have to put sustainable development goals at the heart of its priorities, but also and above all policy coherence for development to ensure that trade, migration, security and environmental policies are consistent and compatible with development goals. the second priority concerns political dialogue. at a time when tensions are affecting large parts of africa, it remains a fundamental pillar that has been too little used so far. this pillar will need to be strengthened and equipped with the appropriate tools to make it more effective and relevant. the third priority concerns the economic pillar. in this context, the european union should commit to further supporting acp countries in implementing economic partnership agreements (epas) when they decide to conclude them and to ensuring that these countries first strengthen their institutional capacity and economic diversification capacity and reform their tax policies before embarking on trade liberalisation. finally, the involvement of civil society must be guaranteed in all areas of cooperation, both in development and in trade cooperation, at all levels of dialogue and with new and more effective tools. civil society must continue to be recognised as an official actor in the cooperation between the union and the acp countries.
the s&d group. mr president, the un special rapporteur on the right to food, mr olivier de schutter, had stressed the essential role of agriculture in terms of development. it is clear that we must be consistent in our policies on this point and try to ensure that agriculture is self-sufficient in food throughout the world. but today, through our policies, we are turning our backs on this self-sufficiency in food. in the economic partnership agreements we sign with africa, we are ultimately making african countries dependent on european business, which is contrary to their normal agricultural development. similarly, at european level, our common agricultural policy is perhaps the only one among the world's major agricultural producers which decouples aid. thus, cap aid which represents 40% of the european budget is completely disconnected from the economic reality of agriculture. it is therefore clear that aid must be linked to economic reality. we must ensure that we are consistent in our various international agreements and that agriculture grows everywhere in the world, especially in areas where people are hungry. i would remind you that 70% of the world's malnourished people are farmers in rural areas.
the report aims to ensure a minimum level of legal aid in legal proceedings within the eu. we already have guidelines on the right to an interpreter or a lawyer, while this draft law deals specifically with the right to legal aid. so we're talking about access to legal information, getting a first opinion or a referral to a lawyer, free or not. the text proposed by the commission was a thin one. during the trialogue negotiations, the text was substantially amended. i'm satisfied with the increased level of protection. i also think it is only right that the same minimum level be maintained throughout the european union. for example, some eu member states do not provide legal aid for people detained under european arrest warrants. such gaps are being closed in the present text. finally, i think it is a good thing that legal aid is only offered if there can be some added value, regardless of the person's incapacity. in belgium, this is already the case with regard to the assistance of a lawyer. if he feels that his intervention has no added value, he can ask the parent agency to remove him from the case. that seems to me to be a wise use of taxpayers' money. that is why the n-va will support this proposal.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. i would like to begin by thanking our colleague mr de jong for his special efforts to make progress on this issue. the right of access to a lawyer is a fundamental right guaranteed by european legislation. however, we know that in practice this right is not accompanied by or only rarely accompanies the measures necessary to give it effect. failing that, some people may find themselves alone in the face of the charges against them. personally, i refuse to caution a two-speed justice. we must ensure the effectiveness of legal aid systems in the member states. the european union had to define a minimum level of respect, and the so-called "façade" systems, which exist only on paper, had to disappear. this is a cynicism which is absolutely outrageous. the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, played a decisive role during the negotiations. our ambitions have borne fruit since we have obtained, among other things: firstly, that minimum common criteria be established; secondly, that legal aid be guaranteed throughout criminal proceedings; thirdly, that special attention be given to vulnerable people and that their specific needs be taken into account; and, finally, fourthly, and this seems important to me, the police and the public prosecutor play a very limited role in the appointment of the lawyer pro bono. it is a real victory. it is unacceptable that the police can investigate a person and at the same time make decisions on his defence. you would like to thank the european commission, which has been a crucial support during the negotiations. you also want to salute the work of the dutch presidency and its determination to find an agreement. of course, we would all probably prefer to go one step further and align totally the right of access to a lawyer on the right to legal aid. that was not possible. unfortunately, the legislation is limited to guaranteeing legal aid in situations of deprivation of liberty, but it must be made clear that this must include the period of questioning. we cannot in any case accept that people are subjected to police questioning without the right to have a lawyer pro bono. we are talking about a fundamental human right. it is shocking that some member states still have such a miserable conception of the law, and they must be reminded of this in all circumstances.
i am speaking on behalf of our shadow rapporteur, mr sander loones. proportionality, clarity and flexibility are the elements of the 2005 revision of this regulation that our group appreciates most. we welcome the introduction of proportionate controls without creating unnecessary burdens, burdens which would restrict trade in goods for legal end use. we also support the technique of specific summary lists of goods which provide clarity to exporters and importers and which can be adapted quickly to changing technologies and changing developments in the world. that combination of lists of goods and the urgency procedure does not compromise the authorised access to medicinal products and pharmaceutical products. other amendments to the regulation may also be approved by us, such as the requirement of prior authorization for intermediary services and technical assistance for goods covered by annexes iii and iiia and the prohibition of such services for goods covered by annex ii; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources. we hope, together with you, to secure a unanimous vote. we congratulate rapporteur schaake and also commissioner malmström.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to thank the secretary-general first of all for this last 10 years. madame la présidente, soyez la bienvenue. je suis content que vous ayez trouvé le chemin vers notre parlement. il y a encore sur votre bureau une petite invitation de la commission d'enquête emis. j'espère donc que vous connaissez maintenant le chemin. so colleagues, i think that the cop21 paris agreement is historic. i think, in my opinion, it is even as historic as the universal declaration of human rights of 1948. as in 1948, cop21 is proof, in fact, that multilateralism works, and that the global governance of our planet is not a dream, as some people are saying. it proves also that we, europe, can lead the world in the right direction and that in fact we are stronger together. mr secretary-general, what a dramatic difference between this and the ongoing tragedy in aleppo: civilians killed, hospitals bombed, and stalemate between america and russia – the reluctance of the first coupled with the cynical and cruel determination of the other and, i would even say, the failing post-war logic of the security council. i think cop21 and the paris agreement demonstrate exactly the opposite: that the international community and europe can take responsibility, and that in fact multilateralism is the way forward for the next generations.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement is a landmark event in the fight against climate change and for multilateralism. it is an ambitious, balanced, fair and legally binding agreement. the report sets out a long-term objective of taking global action to keep the increase in global temperatures well below 2°c compared to pre-industrial levels. it also introduces a dynamic mechanism for taking stock and upward adjustment of ambitions over time. the agreement provides for a legal obligation for stakeholders to take national mitigation measures to achieve the objectives set out in their contribution, but also for an ambitious solidarity mechanism between rich and less rich countries. convinced that this agreement should accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient and climate-neutral global economy, i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation has strongly endorsed the paris climate agreement. the eu's ratification brings this historic agreement one step closer to entry into force, and that is necessary. climate change is one of the most important global challenges, along with biodiversity loss and resource scarcity. the lack of strong policies has irreversible consequences and is harmful to the planet, people and the economy. the paris agreement is the first legally binding global climate agreement and aims to limit global warming to well below 2°c. we can only fight climate change effectively with global and collective efforts. europe has been at the forefront of the fight against climate change for years, but setting a good example is not enough. the eu cannot solve the problem alone. we need allies. for the n-va, the future of our children and grandchildren comes first. so we have to address both the effects and the causes of climate change. the initiative of flemish prime minister geert bourgeois for a flemish climate and energy summit illustrates our commitment. the n-va wants to combine economic growth and prosperity with a low-carbon economy. this implies that we make sustainable, efficient and effective choices that we can sustain for years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ratifying the paris agreement on climate change because it is the first ever global, legally binding climate agreement and it is urgent that it can enter into force as soon as possible. this fight is not only one of the greatest challenges of our time. it is also an opportunity to build a more sustainable and competitive economic model and more stable societies. for the agreement to enter into force, a double condition had to be met: ratification by at least 55 parties and 55% of global emissions. the first condition was already fulfilled. the european parliament's vote also allows the second to be adopted, triggering the entry into force of the agreement less than a year after its signature. parliament's vote also allows the eu to remain a leader on climate. it also demonstrates that cooperation and joint management of difficulties are the only solution to the world's problems.
in writing. in the middle of the last century, the world came to the conclusion that our climate was going in the wrong direction. meanwhile, scientific research has shown that industrial activities are at the root of that climate change. in 1997, kyoto was the first to set limits on harmful greenhouse gas emissions. many more climate conferences would follow. with varying degrees of success. because either the big industrial countries like the us and china were left on the sidelines or they were given a new lease of life. that is why the paris agreement is 'historic' for several reasons. one: because all partners have now taken the climate threat seriously and are now committing to limiting temperature rise to 1.5°c. two , you 're not . the rapid ratification is the result of a strengthened multilateral approach, which provides evidence that global challenges are best addressed when they are tackled together. now we need to quickly develop a concrete and ambitious climate policy to achieve that 1.5°c target. this implies serious efforts to reduce harmful gas emissions, to introduce new energy technologies and to develop a fully sustainable economy. with this ratification, the eu reaffirms its global commitment to a better environment.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted in plenary to ratify the paris agreement of cop21. after the time of decisions, the time of action will come, with the cop22 to be held in marrakech, morocco. it will thus make it possible to implement the measures adopted in the paris agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and effectively combat global warming. the european union and the major industrial powers must commit themselves willingly to a decarbonised economy, with the cooperation of economic actors. the fight against climate change is also a fight against respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted overwhelmingly to ratify the paris climate agreement. this is important and good news for international climate policy and shows that if there is political will, things can move forward. multilateral and international cooperation is worthwhile. the ratification by the european union is exceptional because most eu member states, including belgium, have not yet ratified. this could, in theory, lead to a situation where the eu negotiates on behalf of member states at the marrakesh climate summit, which have no say in the matter. member states are reluctant to accept this situation, but because countries like the us and china ratified so quickly, the eu had to go along. the choice was between swift ratification by the eu or an international mudslide and having no say at all as the eu. the knife was on the throat. as of now, the emissions of the six member states that have already ratified count towards the 55 percent emission threshold that brings the climate agreement into force. this will close a 3.1 percent gap in emissions. the paris agreement will officially enter into force at the beginning of november. that's just in time for the start of the climate summit in marrakech.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament ratified the paris agreement cop21 on tuesday; a procedure for validating the text which avoids the need for individual ratification by each member state. our signature means above all that we are confirming the commitments made in paris. it is a clear signal that europe intends to meet its commitments for a transition to a low-carbon economy and society. the challenges remain many: to achieve an energy union, to continue to support the conditions for innovation and job creation that this transition will bring. europe must be a leader in the energy transition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this ratification decision to send a strong signal about the leadership and efforts of the eu and its member states to fight climate change at international level. we are not a chat-club. europe is back in the climate negotiations. after the european commission gave its approval, the european parliament ratified the paris climate agreement. i am very pleased that we in the european parliament have ratified the climate agreement, and that we are taking a decisive step towards the entry into force of the agreement. the presence of un secretary-general ban ki-moon also said a great deal about the scope of the european parliament's decision.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this legislative resolution and thereby gave my consent to the conclusion of the paris agreement. by doing so, parliament has given its contribution to reaching the required 55 signatories representing 55% of global emissions, to come into effect. this agreement is a milestone in our efforts to stop climate change. over the past years it has become clear that we have to take action in order to keep climate change under control. this agreement provides a long-term plan that includes 189 nations and the vast majority of emissions worldwide. it sets clear goals and ensures and enhances transparency and accountability with regard to commitments. at the same time, it also helps those nations to fight climate change that do not have the resources to do so. it will provide one of the cornerstones for future sustainable economic development.
in writing. ‒ the european commission proposes to make available to greece an amount of eur 1 651 834 from the european union solidarity fund in response to the earthquake in the ionian islands. the earthquake, which occurred on november 17, 2015, reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale, destroying many houses and causing deaths and injuries. parliament and i voted in favour of this aid to greece and the affected region to help the people on the ground to rebuild and to show them that european solidarity is working.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to grant financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to respond to a disaster in greece on 17 november 2015 (earthquakes affecting the region of the ionian islands, including leucadia and the northern areas of the islands of ithaca and cephalonia). in line with past practice and the eusf regulation, the commission proposes to apply the rate of 2.5% of the total direct damage below the intervention threshold set for greece. the total amount of the proposed aid is therefore eur 1 651 834. i voted in favour of this report recommending the rapid adoption of the commission's proposal for a decision in solidarity with the greek regions affected by this earthquake.
in writing. on 17 november 2015, earthquakes struck the ionian islands region, including leucadia and the northern areas of the islands of ithaca and cephalonia. these earthquakes reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. two people were killed, eight others were injured, 120 homes were damaged, 20 of which were deemed uninhabitable. considerable damage was caused to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites. i would like to express my deepest sympathy and solidarity with the families of the victims of this tragedy and with all those who have lost loved ones. the economic, social, human and environmental damage caused by these disasters cannot be ignored. i therefore support the financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) of up to eur 1 651 834 in commitment and payment appropriations to meet the most urgent needs. it is the duty of the eu to coordinate and strengthen its instruments in order to be able to act effectively in the face of this situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015. a series of catastrophic earthquakes struck leucade island, damaging 120 homes, 20 of which were deemed uninhabitable. these earthquakes also caused considerable damage to municipal and provincial infrastructure networks, public and private buildings and other infrastructure, as well as cultural sites. in view of all this, it seemed to me important and urgent to vote in favour of this financial aid.
in writing. - it's only natural that we show solidarity. the commission proposes to grant financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to respond to a disaster in greece on 17 november 2015 (earthquakes affecting the region of the ionian islands, including leucadia and the northern areas of the islands of ithaca and cephalonia). the earthquakes reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. two people were killed, eight others were injured, 120 homes were damaged, 20 of which were deemed uninhabitable. considerable damage was caused to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites. some of the most important beaches of leucade island from a tourist point of view have been destroyed.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance in response to the earthquake in greece on 17 november 2015 in the region of the ionian islands, in particular the island of lefkada, the northern part of ithaca and kefalonia. the earthquake measured 6.1 on the richter scale. two people were killed, eight were injured, 120 homes were damaged, 20 of which were declared uninhabitable. there is considerable damage to infrastructure, buildings and cultural sites. on lefkada, some of the biggest tourist beaches were destroyed. i voted for this report because i believe that europe must play its part in this.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is a useful tool to mitigate the impact of business closures in the eu, but it remains a backdrop for the bleeding. however, greater efforts are needed proactively to save and/or even bring back european industry to our continent. the eu is, with all its rules and burdens, more of a brake than an engine in this respect. the member states themselves must be able to pursue an active (re) industrialization policy and to exercise economic patriotism. the commission notes that the financial support provided by the fund to the bank of greece in the form of grants and loans was limited to eur [0-5] million.
in writing. ‒ the egf supports training, counselling and support for people who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation or severe global economic crises. this report deals with the support of 2035 employees of microsoft in finland who lost their jobs as a result of the economic development and global competition of the company. the amount of eur 5 364 000 is therefore to be made available to the country. i am in favour of this project because it opens up new prospects for the workers.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to provide additional support for workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. on 11 march 2016, finland submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies at microsoft and at 8 suppliers and downstream producers in finland. there were 2,035 layoffs during this period between september 11, 2015 and january 11, 2016, including 1,889 workers at microsoft. these massive redundancies are taking place against a backdrop of increased international competition, particularly in the telephone sector, which has already cost finland more than 5 000 jobs in technology companies in 2014. in view of the situation of finnish workers and the need to make europe a project of solidarity and not just a free trade area, i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to mobilise the egf for the sum of eur 5 364 000, or 60% of the total cost of the actions proposed by finland.
in writing. ‒ the plenary followed the position of the committee on budgets, of which i am a member, and voted to grant the amount of eur 5 364 000 requested by the finnish authorities following a series of redundancies at microsoft (microsoft mobile oy) and at 8 suppliers and producers. this aid will make it possible to co-finance active measures for 2 161 persons, focusing on job-search assistance, training, vocational reorientation, etc. the main reason for the reduction in microsoft's workforce is the decline in market share of its phones (lumia) in favour of operating systems designed in the usa but used by several asian manufacturers. globalisation is clearly posing serious problems for european producers.
in writing. the software industry is being hit hard by the opening up to the globalised economy. the sector is highly internationalised and competitive on a global scale. according to finland, the reason for the redundancies is the decline in the finnish telephone market share. the share of the european union in the ict sector in terms of employment has declined in favour of china and the united states. it is in this context that finland submitted an application on 11 march 2016 to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for redundancies of 2 161 people at microsoft and eight suppliers and downstream producers in finland. i support the european union's financial support for the workers made redundant, unemployed by microsoft and eight of its suppliers and downstream producers in finland. this aid will help them to reintegrate into the labour market. the financial contribution from the egf of eur 5 364 000 will help workers to reintegrate into the labour market. beyond that, i am determined to advocate the establishment of a strategy for an ambitious, future-oriented european reindustrialisation policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 1889 workers who lost their jobs at microsoft in finland and the 146 workers at 8 downstream suppliers and producers. finland, like the european union as a whole, has been facing increased competition in the information and communication technology market in recent years. it is therefore important to help all those workers who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ according to the finnish authorities, the main reason for the redundancies at microsoft is the decline in the market share of its phones. in order to establish the link between the reductions in staff and the major changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation, they recall that the share of the european union in the ict sector in terms of employment has decreased, while that of china and the united states has increased. while nokia dominated the mobile phone market in the first decade of the 2000s, android and ios, operating systems used by various asian manufacturers, have developed in recent years to become the market leaders. the european parliament has heard them.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers who are suffering from the effects of major structural changes due to globalisation. on 29 july 2016, the commission adopted a proposal to make the egf available to finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at microsoft and eight suppliers and downstream producers in finland. the application for the egf for finland was for eur 1 365 000. the application concerns 1 441 of the 2 161 workers made redundant. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is a useful tool to mitigate the impact of business closures in the eu, but it remains a backdrop for the bleeding. however, greater efforts are needed proactively to save and/or even bring back european industry to our continent. the eu is, with all its rules and burdens, more of a brake than an engine in this respect. the member states themselves must be able to pursue an active (re) industrialization policy and to exercise economic patriotism.
in writing. ‒ the egf supports training, counselling and support for people who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation or severe global economic crises. this report concerns a sum of eur 3 957 918 to be made available to the swedish state. the commission notes that the average labour costs of the sampled union producers developed over the period considered as follows: ericsson is principally active in the manufacture of electronic products, in particular computer programmes and computers. the report highlights that the company is facing stagnating growth and increasing competition from asian producers. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to provide additional support for workers suffering from the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade. on 31 march 2016, sweden submitted an application for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies of more than 1500 people at ericsson in sweden. in recent years, ericsson has concentrated most of its production and development facilities in asia, where not only are the fastest growing markets, but also the cheapest workers. the company has therefore gradually reduced its workforce in sweden (from 21 178 employees in 2005 to 17 858 in 2014), while at the same time experiencing a spectacular growth worldwide (from 56 055 employees in 2005 to 118 055 in 2014). the commission proposes that the egf contribute to the coordinated package of personalised services to the amount of eur 3 957 918. in view of the situation facing swedish workers and the need to make europe a project of solidarity and not just a free trade area, i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the plenary followed the position of the committee on budgets, of which i am a member, and voted today to allocate eur 3 957 918 to finance personalised services for the benefit of 1 556 people in ericsson who have been made redundant. the european information technology and telecommunications sectors are currently facing very strong competition from asian manufacturers. asia has also become a major relocation destination. this is a major problem for the future of european industry and workers must be helped to cope with the consequences of this ruthless confrontation.
in writing. i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in sweden, amounting to eur 3 957 918, to help 918 workers re-enter the labour market. i believe it is essential to help workers, to ensure that they have stable and sustainable jobs in the long term and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. on 31 march sweden submitted a request for assistance from the egf in connection with redundancies at ericsson. the swedish company was forced to gradually reduce the number of employees in sweden from 21 178 in 2005 to 17 858 in 2014, representing almost one fifth of its workforce. these redundancies are directly linked to the major changes in the structure of international trade resulting from globalisation. to remain competitive with asian manufacturers in the long term and to maintain its dominant position in services and technology, the former telephone pioneer had to change its strategy. in a world of constant change, it is essential to help workers reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help the 1244 swedish workers who lost their jobs at ericsson's several production sites in sweden. it is important that the european union can financially support these workers to find a job and develop their skills.
in writing. - it's only natural that we show solidarity. on 5 september 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson, which is active in the economic sector classified under nace rev. 2 division 26 (manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products) mainly in the nuts level regions of stockholm (se11), östra mellansverige (se12), sydsverige (se22) and västsverige (se23). this is the eighth application examined under the 2016 budget and the fifteenth concerning the manufacturing of computer, electronic and optical products sector; the commission has decided to mobilise a total amount of eur 3 957 918 from the egf for sweden. it concerns 918 workers made redundant.
in writing. ‒ on 31 march 2016, sweden submitted an application to mobilise the egf, following redundancies at ericsson (telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson) in sweden. the amount of the egf requested is eur 3 957 918, which will help 918 individual beneficiaries to return to the labour market. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the waiver of mr grammatikakis' immunity so that all the light can be shed on this case.
in writing. the deputy prosecutor of the supreme court of the hellenic republic has lodged an application for the waiver of parliamentary immunity against mr giorgos grammatikakis, currently a member of the european parliament, for breach of trust in the performance of his duties. since the alleged infringement giving rise to the proceedings relates to the previous term of office of mr giorgos grammatikakis, when he was rector of the council of the university of crete, the proceedings envisaged do not concern an opinion or vote expressed by the member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union. that is why i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of giorgos grammatikakis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr giorgos grammatikakis' immunity, which is being done at his request, so that the greek judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, and finally to put an end to a judicial process concerning alleged illegal payments made over the period 2000-2002.
in writing. - i have accepted the waiver of my colleague's immunity so that he can defend himself before the courts of his country.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of this text on legal aid because this proposal for a directive is aimed at nothing less than ensuring the effectiveness of the directive on the right of access to a lawyer. such legal aid would be granted to a suspect or a person prosecuted in criminal proceedings, or to a person whose surrender is sought in proceedings relating to the european arrest warrant, following an assessment of the resources of the european arrest warrant and the merits of the request. in the libe committee we also considered it necessary to suggest that the scope of the proposed directive be extended to include the right to 'ordinary' legal aid for suspects and accused persons in certain proceedings and not just the right to 'provisional' legal aid as proposed by the commission. in order to avoid preventing possible abuse, the reimbursement of legal aid costs could exceptionally be claimed from suspects, in particular if they have knowingly provided the competent authorities with false information about their personal financial situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution giving its consent to the adoption at first reading of the proposal for a directive on provisional legal aid for suspects and accused persons deprived of liberty and on legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings. the aim of this directive is to ensure that european citizens enjoy a minimum of judicial rights throughout the union and to improve mutual trust between the different criminal justice systems of the member states with a view to improving the correct use of the european arrest warrant. legal aid contains 6 specific measures: the right to interpretation and translation; the right to information; the right of access to a lawyer; the right to the presumption of innocence; and specific procedural safeguards for children. the eu already had minimum guarantees for access to a lawyer, but with this new directive, all european citizens will be able to make use of these rights, not just those who can afford a lawyer. all european citizens will have the same rights wherever they are in the union.
in writing. after two years of negotiations, i am pleased that the european parliament has just adopted a new directive on the right to legal aid. the right of access to a lawyer is a fundamental right guaranteed by european legislation. however, we know that in practice this right is not accompanied by measures to make it effective. some people, lacking resources, may find themselves alone with the burdens they carry. i refuse to be a party to a two-tiered justice system. we had to ensure the effectiveness of legal aid systems in the member states. the european union had to define a minimum floor to be respected. facade systems, which exist only on paper, must be brought to an end. of course, i would have preferred to take it a step further by aligning the right to access a lawyer with the right to legal aid. that was not possible. unfortunately, the legislation is limited to guaranteeing legal aid in cases of deprivation of liberty. but let's be clear, this has to include the interrogation period. we cannot accept that people are subjected to police questioning without being able to enjoy the right to have a lawyer pro deo.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, meps added a new stone to the building block of european justice policy. the compromise reached with the council on 30 june 2016 on the proposal for a directive on legal aid does indeed grant a number of rights to litigants. in practice, this right is too often not accompanied by measures to make it effective. in the absence of resources, some individuals may be left to face the charges against them alone, which may weaken the application of the presumption of innocence. the european parliament's negotiators' determination has fortunately borne fruit, since the adopted directive includes the provision ensuring that legal aid is guaranteed throughout all criminal judicial proceedings. another victory, the police and the public prosecutor will have a very limited role in the appointment of the pro bono lawyer. it was indeed paradoxical that the police could both investigate a person and at the same time take decisions on the defence of that person.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on legal aid for suspects and accused persons and on legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings. the commission proposal is an important step towards guaranteeing a minimum level of legal aid in all member states. other aspects of the right to legal aid have been included in a separate commission recommendation. the commission took a long time to propose the current instruments, which is why the remaining measures in the roadmap, and in particular the draft directive on legal aid, must be adopted as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the fragmented approach currently pursued by the commission may illustrate the sensitivity of the subject, but it does not increase legal certainty and does not allow suspects or accused persons to know to what extent they will benefit from the right to legal aid and what the quality of legal aid will be. therefore, the scope of the directive should include both provisional and ordinary legal aid in all circumstances. in this respect, the scope of the directive should be identical to that of directive 2013/48/eu on the right of access to a lawyer. prosecuted persons, suspects and requested persons may be reluctant to apply for legal aid, while member states may claim from them expenses related to provisional legal aid if they do not fulfil the eligibility criteria. it therefore seems legitimate to limit the recovery of costs to situations where the suspect, accused or requested person has knowingly provided false information.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this directive is to ensure that the right of access to a lawyer can be effectively exercised by suspects or accused persons or persons sought in surrender proceedings. since we live in a democracy and a state of law, it is only natural that everyone should have the right to legal aid in all circumstances. i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive.
in writing. ‒ following the european parliament's awareness-raising since 2010, the commission has launched the review of the eu's export control system with a view to strengthening the protection of human rights by subjecting to controls goods and activities used, or likely to be used, to inflict capital punishment, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment. the draft opinion of my colleagues in the inta committee aims in particular to introduce a targeted end-use clause to enable member states to prohibit or suspend the transfer of certain goods which have no obvious practical use other than the imposition of capital punishment, torture or other ill-treatment. they also propose a series of measures to ensure the effective implementation of the regulation and the establishment of a periodic review mechanism. i believe that export controls are instruments of external trade policy which can contribute to the achievement of broader strategic objectives such as the abolition of the death penalty and the fight against torture, and i therefore voted in favour of this text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of strengthened rules to prevent trade in goods and services that may contribute to torture or the death penalty. the prohibition of the death penalty and the prohibition of torture are key objectives of european trade and foreign policies. as such, it is essential that union companies do not contribute in any way to such practices. to ensure this, the union has put in place specific tools, including trade restriction regulations, which prohibit the export of products which have no practical use other than for execution or torture, as well as products which have been designed for other purposes but which could be used for torture or execution. despite these provisions, certain loopholes have allowed the trade or brokerage and advertising of such products to continue. moreover, in the face of changes and the development of new technologies, it was essential to strengthen european legislation.
in writing. it remains worrying that a high number of countries still apply the death penalty while other countries and regimes are considering reintroducing it. that is why europe continues to oppose the death penalty worldwide. and that is why it is also necessary for europe to commit itself in all areas of its foreign policy to the abolition of the death penalty. to this end, the eu adopted in 2005 an export control system for trade in goods that could be used for torture and the death penalty. since then, it has been prohibited to export such products to countries and regimes that have not abolished the death penalty. to further strengthen these rules, an updated export control system is adopted, providing for stricter customs controls, a ban on advertising, publicity and marketing services for products that could be used in torture or executions, and a better exchange of information between member states. the eu is firm in its commitment to better protection of human rights and the abolition of the death penalty. and that is why it is necessary for the eu to take the lead not only in politics and diplomacy but also in all aspects of its external action.
in writing. ‒ meps voted by 612 votes to 11, with 54 abstentions, to strengthen eu rules against trade in goods that can be used for torture or the death penalty by third countries. it will now be forbidden throughout europe to advertise goods used for torture, such as electric chairs, including at trade fairs. their transit through the eu will be completely prohibited, as will goods that are "controlled" (i.e. designed for other purposes but which could be used for torture, such as certain riot control weapons), if they are destined to fall into the wrong hands. should we recall that the death penalty is still applied in 58 states and territories around the world and that 2015 was particularly dark in this regard? amnesty international recorded its highest number of executions since 1989, peaking at least 1,634 people. similarly, the ngo reports cases of torture in at least 141 countries over the past five years, even though 156 states worldwide are signatories to the un convention against torture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which opposes the sinister trade in instruments of torture. this report is an important step towards closing the gaps in the prevention of torture and ill-treatment in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text proposed by my dutch colleague. export controls, which are applicable throughout the union, are instruments of external trade policy which contribute to the achievement of a wider set of strategic objectives. regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 'against torture' is a prime means of strengthening the protection of human rights by subjecting to controls the assets and activities used, or which could be used, to inflict capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by my liberal colleague, mr schaake. export controls throughout the eu are instruments of external trade policy which serve a wide range of wider policy objectives. this regulation is part of the eu's longstanding policy to combat the death penalty worldwide and to prevent torture. the regulation prohibits trade in goods which can be used exclusively for torture and executions and related technical assistance and establishes a system of authorisations for goods which can be used for various purposes and could be misused for torture and executions by lethal injection .
in writing. – i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because it is in defence of human rights. regrettably, in some places in the world, torture and the death penalty are still executed. the least that we can do is prevent that they use our products for such goals and practices. doing so is consistent with european values and with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. coherence in the controls of eu exports plays an important role herein. this legislation will enhance such coherence and strengthens the existing legislation. it also recognises the rapid pace of technological developments, the role these play in this matter and the challenge this poses to us. at the same time we need to ensure that controls are proportionate and that they are not creating unnecessary administrative burdens.
in writing. ‒ in order to be more effective in preventing and combating serious forms of crime, europol has started the procedure for concluding a strategic cooperation agreement with the ministry of public security of china. this agreement involves the exchange of information (excluding personal data), and covers expertise, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and the provision of advice and support in specific criminal investigations. the aim of this agreement is to support and strengthen the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in the prevention of organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime. i voted for this one.
in writing. parliament was consulted on the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between china and europol. this new international agreement strengthens europol's cooperation with third countries, which is an essential tool for europol's work. i would nevertheless like to stress that the conclusion of this agreement should have been made after the entry into force of the new europol regulation scheduled for may 2017. the new regulation provides for enhanced guarantees, in particular in the area of data protection. moreover, after the entry into force of the new regulation, the european parliament will have more prerogatives in concluding such international agreements. the role of parliament in these matters must be defended. it is therefore important that the conclusion of any new agreement complies with the new rules which will be coming into force shortly.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. like the one with russia or the one signed with brazil in april 2016, this agreement will allow both parties to exchange certain information - excluding personal data - and to help each other in the fight against organised crime. china is europe's second largest trading partner and is playing an increasingly important political role in the world. but the chinese authorities also face great challenges. in particular, according to europol, china's weight as a country of origin, transit or destination for organised crime is continuously increasing. in the eu-china crosshairs: illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of currency, infringements of intellectual property, and cybercrime. the conclusion of this agreement is a sign of china's serious commitment to strengthening the fight against organised crime and is part of europol's strategy to develop strategic partnerships to ensure the security of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this international agreement on strategic cooperation between europol and china. such cooperation with china seems necessary since the importance of china as a country of origin, transit or destination in the fight against organised crime is well established. this report will help to strengthen international cooperation with china in law enforcement matters.
in writing. ‒ this strategic agreement between europol and china aims at the exchange of information, excluding personal data. europol shall conclude such agreements with the consent of the council. the european parliament was also asked to give an opinion in the context of the approval procedure. china is increasingly relevant as an actor in the fight against organised crime, including human trafficking and money laundering. this agreement allows us, among other things, to draw on the expertise of the chinese authorities and to obtain strategic information. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat organised crime and to increase security within the union.
in writing. - i've been following the work of my colleague moraes. the proposal under consideration concerns the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china. since this type of strategic agreement excludes the exchange of personal data, the issue of data protection does not arise in the present case. the information exchanged may include expert opinions, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, as well as training, advice and support activities in specific criminal investigations. europol seems to have a clear need for operational cooperation with china. according to europol, china's role as a country of origin, transit or destination is continuously increasing in the fight against organised crime, including assistance to illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime, counterfeiting of the euro, infringements of intellectual property rights and corruption in sport, as well as other activities related to cybercrime and money laundering. in addition, china has several highly influential criminal organizations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. when the new europol regulation enters into force, the eu may need to reassess the strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by the socialist norbert neuser (s&d, de) on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020 because international solidarity was more essential than ever in this context. the report recalled the value of acp-eu cooperation and stressed the need to improve it by establishing a new structure that would preserve the acp-eu acquis, such as the commitment to human rights and gender equality, human development, good governance and democracy, and the objective of the rule of law. my colleagues in the committee on development also felt that sustainable development, the fight against poverty and inequality, human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law should be at the heart of the agreement. they also called for the establishment of a collegiate acp-eu mechanism for monitoring, justification of action and review with a view to regularly monitoring the implementation of the sustainable development goals in the member states.
in writing. the post-cotonou era is a political and strategic challenge for the eu. it is the cornerstone of our dialogue and cooperation in the political, developmental, economic and commercial fields. it structures our relationship around core principles and values shared with the acp countries, such as respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and support for peace and security. it provides a framework for our development cooperation, through the edf. it allows the development of our economic and trade relations through economic partnership agreements (epas), of which i am a strong supporter. on the eve of 2020, it is not only a question of taking stock of what has been done but also of taking into account new global challenges such as the fight against climate change, international crime, the fight against terrorism and the migration crisis. we must work to improve our development cooperation policy by making it more effective, more coherent, more appropriate and more sustainable.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. this is in the context of the expiry in 2020 of the cotonou partnership agreement between the eu and the acp countries. the report contains a set of objectives, principles, cooperation and financing arrangements and institutional recommendations for a future partnership. the main objective of this report is not to achieve a status quo in the face of major contextual developments in europe and the acp.
in writing. ‒ in 2020, the cotonou partnership agreement between the eu and the african, caribbean and south pacific (acp) countries will expire. this is the largest partnership between developed and developing countries in the world and the relations have been in place since the 1960s. the report put to the vote outlines parliament's vision for the future of the agreement beyond 2020. the european council welcomed the progress made in the implementation of the cotonou agreement and the new structure which will keep universal themes such as human rights and gender equality, development and democracy in a common framework, while work will have to be done in regional agreements. the green group welcomes the cotonou agreement for its development policy and binding standards on democracy, human rights and the rule of law, but considers that it has serious shortcomings: the acp group's (non-) functioning in decision-making, the systematic failure of many acp states to respect common values and the irregularity of financing are among the problems. because of these shortcomings, we with the greens would have liked to see a more open approach which includes the option of replacing acp-eu relations with direct relations between the eu and the three acp regions separately. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we affirm that acp-eu cooperation is a unique and valuable achievement that has strengthened the links between the peoples of the acp states and the union and between their respective parliaments over the past 40 years. we also wanted to emphasize that the common framework and regional agreements should be legally binding. finally, we call for the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) to be placed at the centre of the new agreement, and for robust monitoring mechanisms to be put in place to ensure that the implementation of the agreement contributes to the achievement and promotion of the sdgs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. it confirms that acp-eu cooperation is a valuable and unique achievement which has strengthened the ties between the acp and eu peoples and countries and their parliaments over the last 40 years. now that the cooperation agreement, after 40 years, was about to expire, we decided to extend it. regional cooperation brings progress and prosperity for all parties. acs: african, caribbean and pacific countries
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the situation in the community, which is a very important one. the fact that you want to put countries with very different socioeconomic cultures into one structure has prevented countries in difficulty, countries facing shock, crisis, change, from devaluing their currencies to regain their competitiveness. the rigid construction prevents that, and what should you do? you have to force those countries to lower their wages, to lower their prices. you are pushing these countries into a repugnant spiral of unemployment in many cases, and to prevent your construction from collapsing, we must all believe that things will be all right later. you are trying to make germans or dutch out of greeks, portuguese, spaniards and soon italians too, but that is not sustainable. that is an illusion. there are really only three possibilities: either you go ahead with more european union, with more neo-colonialism as it is seen in those countries, or we go towards a peaceful division of that eurozone, a peaceful end to this mistake, or we go towards a catastrophe. i am calling for a peaceful end, at least a partial end to this eurozone.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to highlight a very specific aspect of greece's situation here, namely the use of structural funds from the so-called eu funds. due to the tight financial situation, the necessary co-financing could no longer be guaranteed at the end of the period of support. the european parliament has therefore allowed greece to waive this co-financing. in addition, greece has been granted an advance of some 1 000 million for the new period. this kind of aid to greece is not a blank check. they must benefit from concrete projects on the ground with real added value . the real added value is that the funds are not only to be called in and spent, but to help greece to provide long-term products and services that are in demand abroad. only in this way can greece return to economic growth, reduce its high unemployment and offer its citizens a perspective. as parliament's special rapporteur, i have had the opportunity on several occasions to see the use of these funds on the ground: as regards the old period of support, the completion of the projects seems to have been positive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. otherwise we risk not achieving the added value.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, who is doing the most damage to the european project today? the euro-sceptics like mr farage or mrs le pen or the euro-cynics like mr barroso and mrs kroes? what is clear is that the former are gaining ground by stoking the anger aroused by the unworthy behavior of the latter. the more the rulers are won over by cynicism, the more populism seduces the ruled. by joining goldman sachs, the symbol of all financial excesses and a leading player in the 2008 financial crisis, josé barroso further undermined citizens' trust in the european project. that's why he must be punished. the decision by mr juncker to refer this matter to the ethics committee is far too late and far from sufficient. we have to go to the court. the scandal that has erupted today, mrs kroes, reminds us that the barroso case is far from being an isolated one, and the cases of gerhard schröder, tony blair and jérôme cahuzac are a good example that this is not a disease of the european institutions alone. the rules on conflicts of interest need to be strengthened urgently and i would also like to address a warning to the commission representatives and, beyond that, to all of us european policy-makers, both in brussels and in the member states: citizens feel - and all too often rightly - that political decisions are increasingly being tailored to the interests of big business. the recycling of former commissioners or former ministers into business circles or their involvement in tax avoidance strategies only reinforces their suspicion, not to mention the combination of political responsibilities with mandates in the private sector, including within this house. the confidence of citizens in their institutions and elected representatives is the foundation of democracy and we know that this confidence is being shaken. restoring peace requires each of us to put the defence of the common good at the heart of our action, with particular attention to the most fragile and vulnerable among us. if we do not, not only will europeophobia increase, but the rejection of our democratic institutions will also increase.
madam president, commissioner, as you know, in almost all cases the lack of transparency and therefore possible conflicts of interest go hand in hand with the existence of tax havens. it's obvious. we hide things to make more money. how many revelations about tax evasion by the richest will it take before we finally take strong action at all levels? indeed, beyond the immorality of these practices, our states are doubly penalized. as you know, tax evasion robs governments of a trillion euros in revenue every year, money that will not be invested in health, employment, education or security. this is intolerable, at a time when we are constantly asking the weakest to do more, and when mass redundancies are increasing in europe. as has been said, of course, we must firmly condemn the behaviour of mrs kroes and mr barroso, who are once again bringing europe into disrepute. but, beyond their cases, there must also be severe sanctions against all fraudsters, as well as banks and tax advisers of all kinds, who facilitate tax evasion and who, therefore, fight against transparency and promote conflicts of interest - conflicts of interest which they are, moreover, the first to bear, being, at the same time, advisers of the commission, advisers of the member states and advisers of multinational companies. the question of how to solve this problem will have to be asked one day. we must, in particular, achieve public country-by-country reporting to finally achieve some transparency on the profits of these multinationals. we must also apply the measures which have been recommended by this parliament to combat tax erosion, rather than postponing them until 2024, as the council has requested. then, when the bahamas leaks case comes out, we say we can't do anything and it's because of europe. everything is on the table of parliament and the commission. europe must act and act quickly. let us be courageous!
in writing. barroso and kroes have clearly demonstrated that there is a major problem with the moral compass of these former commissioners. they may argue in their defence that they have followed the rules of 2 years of 'spoofing', this is really a weak offer. their conduct is clearly contrary to the spirit of the code of conduct and shows a flagrant lack of decency and common sense. moreover, such practices undermine the confidence of citizens in the european institutions. commissioners must always put the interests of citizens first and act accordingly, even after their term of office. transparency, including on their financial interests, is crucial. there is no room for a conflict of interest. i therefore call for a tightening and clarification of the code of conduct for members and former members of the european commission. if they do not have a moral compass, then strict and unambiguous rules must take over this role.
when i first heard about the proposal from mr weber after the state of the union, i thought for a moment it was a joke. however, we are debating it today, so apparently not. i have already heard that europe is more than laws and figures, that it is also about souls. so we'll buy the souls by giving them a free interrail pass. buying for a high sum: it could cost nearly 1.9 billion euros. i think we can really use this money for better things. i am glad to hear comments from the s&d group today. i do think that this will not reach the average young people, but rather the average young people. for what is the high cost today? not the transport, but the accommodation. by the way, i heard someone say, you have to sleep on the beach and stuff, and i don't think that's desirable either. so i think we should help the young people in a sustainable way by helping them to get a job. that way they will be far better off than if we gave them a free interrail pass now.
i would like to begin by expressing my support for this proposal. it's democratic, because it's for every 18-year-old. it is more environmentally friendly than low-cost air travel and it is positively european. a real triple win. but i also share the concern about the cost. that is why i have defended in the belgian press today the proposal to offer a standard interrail ticket. without a discount, a ticket costs 200 euros. and if we calculate that about 70 percent of europe's 18-year-olds will use this ticket, the annual cost comes to 770 million euros. i am convinced that if we really want to, we can make an effort within the current budget and find a good solution together with the member states and the railway companies. i would also like to say that i will be holding a dialogue with the flemish youth on this. i have already made initial contacts with the flemish youth council. in order to complete the final modalities of this proposal, the input and insights of young people can be very valuable.
in writing. i support the proposal to make the interrail pass free of charge for every european young person who turns 18. the idea was launched this summer by the german greens. we want to encourage young people to experience foreign countries, broaden their horizons and show them that taking the train to go on holiday is fun. it is certainly more environmentally friendly than buying cheap ryanair tickets en masse. if there are budgetary concerns, perhaps we could consider fairer taxation in aviation? it is being discussed at the montreal air conference as we speak. maybe it shouldn't be free, but is a little something or a big discount enough? a thorough analysis of this investment, the availability and capacity of the trains, the integration of the proposal into the current interrail system and the total train offer, is necessary. the statement by mr van bossuyt, of the nv-a, that 'the european parliament is trying to buy love' is ridiculous. this is about choosing what european money is spent on. spending billions on surveillance technology or the nuclear sector? or will they choose to use the efforts of a few hundred million young people to broaden their horizons and get to know other member states, people and cultures?
on behalf of the group of the european right of course, i am in favour of effective fraud prevention and better use of public funds. fraud must be investigated with the full cooperation of all member states. the creation of the european public prosecutor's office, the eppo, is not the right solution. in addition to olaf, which is now responsible for combating administrative fraud, we have eurojust. the eppo is the legal entity responsible for the prosecution of criminal offences and the judicial cooperation in criminal matters. in addition to the needless creation of a third agency, there is also the question of the division of powers. the eppo has jurisdiction over the offences listed in the pif directive, but that directive is only a draft law. if the commission proposal is completely wrong in its approach and timing, we are not doing well. commissioner jourová, just do the job again, and this time do it right.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to say to mr kirkhope: good luck in the house of lords. i am pretty sure that we shall have a good defender of the european union in the house of lords from now on. václav havel, who was at that moment the czech president, warned in a speech in this house, i think it was in 1994, that europe could ‘fall into the hands of a cast of fools, fanatics, populists, demagogues, determined to promote the worst european traditions.’ havel would have turned 80 today, but i think that his warning is more relevant than ever and i would say to you, president, and also to the president of the commission, that the challenges of the next european council are proof of that. i have, in fact, the same priorities as manfred weber has already put on the table. i think you have to talk about the tragedy in syria. i cannot imagine that you return to your capitals after this european council without decisive action on what is happening in aleppo and it will not be sufficient, only to say ‘we are going to liberate eur 25 million in humanitarian aid’, because you know very well today that it is even impossible to transfer this aid to the poor people in aleppo. you will need to do other things, more difficult decisions to take, on eventual sanctions against putin and assad and on eventually installing a no-fly zone above aleppo. otherwise, this tragedy will continue and that is, i think, the first priority we have for this european council. i can only imagine a situation where you go back and say ‘yes, that is for ms mogherini and we have nothing to say about this.’ my second priority is, and that is another point that manfred weber did not mention but i will mention it, is finally fixing the cracks in our financial foundations. it is now eight years that we have been discussing this and that we have not definitely cleaned up the financial mess in europe. that means two things: a fully-fledged banking union. we do not have that for the moment. secondly, economic governance, which is far better than a stability pact – let us be honest – that is never applied, from greece to portugal. it is no better in the north of europe. we have problems with greek banks, irish banks, spanish banks, portuguese banks, italian banks, cypriot banks, belgian banks, dutch banks and now it is deutsche bank that is on the brink, creating further uncertainty and prolonging, in fact, the credit crunch in europe. i remind you that the us, immediately after the financial crisis, put usd 400 billion in their system. they cleaned up the banking sector and every penny has been paid back since they did that. what we are doing in europe is still debating, in fact, a banking union, we are still debating an economic governance system, and my plea to the presidency of the european council is that finally, in the european council, work be done, that the five presidents report be approved. it is a fundamental mistake, mr president, to think that we can get rid of it. that is the second priority, in my opinion, for this european council. the third priority for the european council is, i think, dealing in fact with the uk decision to leave the union. i think it is impossible that you say nothing about it, and i think that you have to respond to the announcement by prime minister may. in my opinion, you have to say four simple things: first, no pre-negotiations – we can only start negotiations after the triggering of article 50; secondly, negotiations need to be finished before the next european election – i cannot imagine that mr farage coming back to this hemicycle; thirdly, the new eu relationship with the uk needs to be a close one, not only in our interest, but also in the interest – i should say – of the 48% of british citizens that have voted to remain, and let us not forget that; finally, whatever the new relationship will be, it can never infringe on our four fundamental freedoms. my conclusion is clear: europe and european values will never be up for negotiation.
for the greens/efa group mr president, like most of us, i have never attended a european council and can only imagine what the one in brussels in early autumn 2016 will look like. i imagine 28 heads of state or government deeply shaken by the announcements of massive layoffs at commerzbank, ing, caterpillar, alstom, especially in the light of this new study which tells us that the full-time equivalent employment rate in europe is capped at 75% in the countries with the best rates in europe, and falls to 68% in germany and 53% in greece. i imagine they are concerned about the alarming increase in inequality in our societies. i imagine them worried after another record year for atmospheric temperatures and, above all, after a september that is the hottest in human history - at least since records began. i imagine them horrified by the massacres perpetrated in aleppo by assad's army and by putin's army, but also by the death toll in the mediterranean, which may make this the deadliest year on that front. as i said, we cannot say that the eu-turkey agreement is working. i imagine they will be delighted to learn that, if before the summer a referendum showed the progress of populist national ideas in europe, another, after the summer, showed that there are still resistance dams in our societies. but for how much longer? perhaps they realize that the worst is never certain, as long as we know how to recover in time. so i can imagine what their debate might be like: they might say that if the trade agreement with canada can benefit some of our multinationals, it could well be at the cost of the net loss of 200 000 european jobs, of increased pressure on our farmers, who can no longer cope, and of a further increase in the power of the multinationals at the expense of democracy. knowing that an increase in international trade flows goes hand in hand with an increase in our ecological footprint, they might conclude that this treaty is definitely not the thing to do. they might decide that instead the urgency is to complete our still imperfect internal market, a market where tax and social competition would give way to cooperation and upward convergence. they could come together to make investment in the energy transition the driving force behind european integration, because they know that it is good for the climate, for our strategic independence, for our balance of payments, for our industrial competitiveness and, of course, for employment. but they might also realise that there is an urgent need to rethink together the organisation of work, our taxation and our social security in a world where the digital revolution is increasingly freeing humanity from work, to ensure that the benefits of this industrial revolution are not confiscated by a few and no longer leave anyone behind. they might come to the conclusion, mr korčok, that containment is not the answer to the migration challenges, but that a rich europe is capable of being a land of welcome and refuge not only by preserving its values, but actually by being faithful to them. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but i am saying that it has not been consulted on the matter. this will, ladies and gentlemen, was totally absent in bratislava and the question is therefore: will this will be present in brussels?
free trade can be a source of economic growth and prosperity even on a global scale, but the principle must not be applied with naivety. we have recently had a discussion in flanders about the partial chinese takeover of our energy distribution network. we must dare to put our own interests first, as independent member states and as a european continent, and to take our own cultural identity as a starting point and to dare to see it as a strength. we must, like the chinese, mobilize our own capital and protect our key sectors from aggressive interference without reciprocity. we must replace a lack of vigilance with a belief in ourselves, an active policy of industrialisation and a sensible economic patriotism.
we remember the agreement between the eu and turkey and the creation of the new eu border and coast guard. for the first time, concrete steps were taken with regard to the application of european return rules. the agreement with turkey finally put greece on the safe third country list. these rules provide that asylum seekers who were previously safe abroad - including turkey, lebanon and jordan - can no longer apply for asylum in europe. in addition, frontex, as a border guard agency, was given full powers to carry out return operations for the first time. in a few weeks' time european leaders will meet again and i hope they will discuss the effective application of existing european asylum legislation. i am now calling for anti-drowning agreements, such as the eu-turkey agreement, to be discussed with all the countries of the mediterranean. as soon as the legal possibility exists, frontex can also return asylum seekers who have simply sought the european welfare state to those countries.
i am glad that there will finally be a full debate on russia in the european council and that we will not simply go back to the prolongation of sanctions and plunge into a cold war with russia. we need to lay out the different cards on the table: the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the countries of the former soviet union. i also hope that you will finally speak about the consequences of putin's counter-sanctions, particularly for our fruit growers and farmers. i believe they deserve compensation for the damage they have suffered. would there be so little attention to this boycott if no more german cars were allowed to be imported? the agricultural sector is in serious crisis and the measures taken are inadequate. i therefore ask for real compensation for the damage suffered, not from the agricultural budget but from the general resources. it is our farmers who are paying the price for this trade war over which they have no control.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a major legal instrument, ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among states parties to resolve cases of international child abduction. these problems are very common when a couple has separated. if the parents are from different countries, they may be tempted to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between these countries to obtain custody of the child. the convention aims to provide solutions to these situations at international level by establishing that the courts of the child's state of residence have jurisdiction and that the law of that state is applicable. the convention also establishes a system to ensure that children who have been abducted are returned immediately. the accession of peru to the hague convention is to be welcomed. here again, the more countries that sign this convention, the more effective it is. many people of peruvian origin live in the european union. children with ties to that state are thus protected from abduction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recognition by austria and romania of peru's accession to the hague convention. this will allow the entry into force of the convention between peru and the european union as a whole. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an instrument of the highest importance. it has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction.
in writing. international abductions are a particularly complex issue because of the human issues involved, the international nature of the matter and the multitude of applicable texts and conventions. the answers must be commensurate with these unacceptable human tragedies. given that the european union has many citizens of peruvian origin, it is essential that the union as a whole recognises this accession so that children linked to the peruvian community are ultimately protected against illicit abductions. all the member states of the union are parties to the 1980 hague convention. the union is also encouraging third countries to join, as peru did in 2001. however, for the convention to apply to the union, the union must accept the accession of peru, which austria and romania have not yet done.
in writing. ‒ meps voted in favour of the recognition of peru's accession to the hague convention on international child abduction, to which all eu member states are signatories. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this often occurs when a couple whose spouse is from another country separates. the courts of the two countries concerned may claim jurisdiction but reach opposite conclusions, particularly as regards custody of the child. the convention aims to remedy such situations by designating the courts and the law of the state where the child resides as competent and arranging for his or her immediate return. the eu has many peruvian citizens on its soil and spain, italy and france, in particular, remain among the top countries of immigration of peruvians. this accession is therefore very good news for international cooperation and child safety, which must be pursued by encouraging the enlargement of the circle of signatory countries, which now numbers ninety-four.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of peru's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. international cooperation in this field is fundamental and aims primarily at safeguarding the interests of the child. each new accession to the convention therefore constitutes a step forward in the general objective of protecting the rights of the child, which is enshrined in article 3 of the treaty on european union.
in writing. ‒ this convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is often the case when a couple separates. for the husband or wife from another country, it may be tempting to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states to obtain custody of the children. the press frequently reports cases of international child abduction that occur at the time of separation or divorce. the major problem is therefore the nationalist conception underlying the legal system of the states. it is not uncommon for the courts of both states to declare that they have jurisdiction and to award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which the court is seated. the convention aims to remedy such situations at international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted.
in writing. ‒ problems between spouses who separate are very common. it may be tempting for the spouse from another state to exploit the lack of interstate cooperation to obtain custody of the children. the press often reports cases of international child abduction in the context of separation or divorce. i welcome the accession of peru to this convention. the children of the peruvian community will thus be protected against unauthorized withdrawal. i voted in favour of this report to safeguard the legal security of these children.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention, which is to be welcomed. the commission has assessed, with the assistance of civil justice experts from the member states, the functioning of the judicial system of kazakhstan and the willingness of kazakhstan to apply the convention and has considered it desirable that it should enter into force. parliament fully endorses this position, given that the system established by the hague convention will be all the more effective the greater the number of countries joining it. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an instrument of the highest importance. it has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction.
in writing. open borders, free movement of people and more accessible travel are leading to an increasing number of mixed marriages, but also to a rise in divorces, separations between couples and child abductions by one of the parents. i believe that a situation of profound human distress can only be dealt with effectively if dialogue exists and is based on trust. a decision can only be made in time if it is negotiated, balanced and accepted by each parent. all means - mediation or the many international conventions - must be available to parents in distress. it is therefore essential that the european union, i.e. all member states, accept kazakhstan's accession to the 1980 hague convention.
in writing. ‒ meps voted by 649 to 4 with 17 abstentions to approve the recognition of kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention on international child abduction, to which all eu member states are parties. almost 660,000 people born in kazakhstan now live in europe, 92% of them in germany alone. the 1980 convention, which now has 94 signatory countries, establishes a system of cooperation to find solutions in cases of international child abduction. this situation occurs most often when a couple separates. if one of the spouses is a national of another country, it may happen that the courts of the two countries concerned declare that they have jurisdiction but reach different conclusions, particularly as regards child custody. the convention aims to remedy such situations by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state where the child resides and by arranging for his or her immediate return. this accession is therefore very good news for international cooperation and child safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of kazakhstan's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. international cooperation in this field is fundamental and aims primarily at safeguarding the interests of the child. each new accession to the convention therefore constitutes a step forward in the general objective of protecting the rights of the child, which is enshrined in article 3 of the treaty on european union.
in writing. ‒ this convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is often the case when a couple separates. for the husband or wife from another country, it may be tempting to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states to obtain custody of the children. the press frequently reports cases of international child abduction that occur at the time of separation or divorce. the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states. in such cases, the courts of both states often declare that they have jurisdiction and each of them grants custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which it is situated. the convention aims to remedy such situations at international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted.
in writing. ‒ this convention provides for a mechanism whereby states cooperate to find a solution in the event of international child abduction. the main problem in such cases is the bias of the courts in each state. but all too often the courts in each of the two states concerned declare that they have jurisdiction and then each assigns custody of the child to the parent of its own nationality. i voted in favour of the report because kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention will bring legal certainty to children of divorced parents.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a very important legal instrument, ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among states parties to resolve cases of international child abduction. these problems are very common when a couple has separated. if the parents are from different countries, they may be tempted to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between these countries to obtain custody of the child. the convention aims to provide solutions to these situations at international level by establishing that the courts of the child's state of residence have jurisdiction and that the law of that state is applicable. the convention also establishes a system to ensure that children who have been abducted are returned immediately. i welcome the accession of south korea to the hague convention. the more countries that sign this convention, the more effective it will be. the fact that there is a large korean community in europe makes it all the more important that we accept this accession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of south korea's accession to the hague convention. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an instrument of the highest importance. it has been ratified by all the member states of the european union. the convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction.
in writing. globalisation offers unparalleled opportunities but also requires social, economic and political responsibility of an ethical nature. every child has the right to have regular personal contact with both parents. parental abduction is a denial of this right and places the child, deprived of one of his parents, his extended family, his mother tongue and one of his cultures, in a state of stress and insecurity. the aftermath of a kidnapping is immeasurable. i therefore urge those member states which have not yet done so to recognise the accession of the republic of korea to the hague convention. child abductions are rightly experienced as tragedies, not only by the child himself who experiences a real emotional upheaval, but also by the parent who is the victim of this abduction, who is constantly in anguish at knowing that his child is deprived of his affection and protection. the eu's response must be commensurate with this unacceptable human tragedy, this nameless distress.
in writing. ‒ a very large majority of meps voted this afternoon to recognise south korea's accession to the hague convention on international child abduction, to which all eu member states are parties. the convention falls within the eu's competence and parliament has been consulted on this subject. the 1980 convention, which now has 94 signatory countries, establishes a system of cooperation to find solutions in cases of international child abduction. this situation occurs most often when a couple separates. if one of the spouses is a national of another country, it may happen that the courts of the two countries concerned declare that they have jurisdiction but reach different conclusions, particularly as regards child custody. the convention aims to remedy such situations by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state where the child resides and by arranging for his or her immediate return. this accession is therefore very good news for international cooperation and child safety. it will be all the more effective as the number of countries joining it will be large.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of korea's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. international cooperation in this field is fundamental and aims primarily at safeguarding the interests of the child. each new accession to the convention therefore constitutes a step forward in the general objective of protecting the rights of the child, which is enshrined in article 3 of the treaty on european union (teu).
in writing. ‒ this convention establishes a system for contracting states to cooperate in finding a solution to cases of international child abduction. this is often the case when a couple separates. for the husband or wife from another country, it may be tempting to take advantage of the lack of cooperation between the states to obtain custody of the children. the press frequently reports cases of international child abduction that occur at the time of separation or divorce. the major problem is the nationalistic conception underlying the legal system of the states. it is not uncommon for the courts of both states to declare that they have jurisdiction and to award custody of the child to the parent who is a national of the state in which the court is seated. the convention aims to remedy such situations at international level by establishing the jurisdiction of the courts and the law of the state in which the child resides. it also sets up a system to ensure the immediate return of the child who has been abducted.
in writing. ‒ the accession of the republic of korea to the hague convention provides legal certainty for children of an international mixed family, one of whose parents is korean, when their parents divorce.
in writing. ‒ it is essential that global, national, local, governmental, non-governmental and private actors take genuinely coordinated and accelerated action to combat malnutrition in order to achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. food security and nutrition must be improved through better governance, increased accountability and comprehensive, rights-based food and nutrition policies.
in writing. in a world of 9 billion people by 2050, including 2 billion in africa, it is imperative to combine population growth, productivity agriculture and sustainable agriculture. currently, 842 million people, or 12 percent of the world's population, are starving. this figure shows us the urgent need to address the problems that are at the root of malnutrition in all its forms. investment has so far covered only 1.4% of total needs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: i fully support this motion for a resolution. ensuring that every human being has adequate and regular food is a fundamental human right.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the next steps towards achieving the global objectives and the union's commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. it advocates that european development, trade and agricultural policies take account of their impact on global food security. the resolution calls on the commission and the council to take the lead on nutrition and food security in august 2016 in brazil and to invest more in this area by adopting a comprehensive approach.
in writing. ‒ sustainable development goal 2 (end hunger, achieve food security, improve nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture) and its related targets aim to end hunger and malnutrition by 2030. if we want to combat this, we're going to have to focus not just on calorie intake, but a global food and agriculture approach that provides a varied diet is much more critical. support for family farming and small-scale farming should be the cornerstones of agricultural policy in developing countries. when small-scale farms use agro-ecological farming practices, they are best able to grow a diverse supply while boosting food production. studies have conclusively shown this. the resolution, which was initially a bit narrow, now points out - thanks to the greens - some important elements in achieving food security, in particular the availability, affordability and control of seed, the problem of land grabbing and the link between development cooperation, world trade and european energy policy. more specifically, the emphasis is now on the importance of small-scale farming, agro-ecology, crop diversity through seed legislation, gmos and intellectual property rights, the negative effects of agricultural liberalisation on the right to food and the negative impact of agrofuels on food security.
in writing. ‒ it is important that global, national, local, governmental, non-governmental and private actors, including scientific and industrial research organisations and donors, take genuinely coordinated and accelerated action to tackle malnutrition in order to achieve the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the second sdg of eliminating hunger. food security and nutrition need to be improved through better governance, increased accountability and rights-based, gender-sensitive and comprehensive food and nutrition policies, sustainable agriculture, the use of and access to natural resources, public water supply, public sanitation and hygiene, and the establishment and expansion of inclusive and rights-based social protection systems, with a particular focus on marginalised and most vulnerable groups.
in writing. ‒ one third of the world's food production about 1.3 billion tonnes is wasted every year. in the eu, this means that a total of 88 million tonnes of food waste is produced every year, while 842 million people, or 12% of the world's population, suffer from hunger. children in developing countries who are breastfed die 15 times less often from pneumonia and 11 times less often from diarrhea than do children who are not breastfed. this report calls on the commission to show more leadership in the area of food and nutrition security by taking its pledges to the next level through an additional commitment of eur 1 billion to the un, by developing a clear strategy setting out how it intends to implement and integrate these objectives into its plans and policies, and by providing a clear roadmap for the allocation of the pledged funds for the period 2016-2020. i voted for this vital policy.
in writing. ‒ parliament called on the council to define a clear and unified set of competences and procedures for the european public prosecutor's office, on the basis of the proposal for a directive on combating fraud to the union's financial interests by means of criminal law (the pif directive). we also call on the commission to intensify its efforts to reach an agreement on the inclusion of vat in the scope of the pif directive and to reopen negotiations with parliament to allow the creation of the european public prosecutor's office. the council must abandon the rule depriving the european public prosecutor's office of the possibility of exercising its jurisdiction for all offences covered by the pif directive in which the damage to the union budget is less than or equal to that suffered by another victim.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. in july 2013, the commission presented a proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. the eppo is designed to be an independent european body capable of prosecuting crimes against the financial interests of the union. the proposal for a regulation must be adopted by the consent procedure. parliament will therefore have to say yes or no to the text on which the states have agreed. in the last three years the council has substantially amended the commission's original proposal. the resolution reaffirms parliament's support for the establishment of an effective and independent european prosecutor's office in order to reduce the current fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the union's budget. the commission also welcomes the fact that the council has adopted a new regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the union, which is intended to ensure that the commission is able to take account of the interests of the union in the field of taxation.
in writing. it has been four years since the commission tabled a legislative proposal to establish a european public prosecutor's office to fight fraud against the financial interests of the european union. the council has only just finalised its general approach. and as we feared, the result is disturbing. the council examined the initial proposal for the creation of an independent centralised european public prosecutor's office with a pyramid structure. instead, it proposes a complex european parliamentary system bound by the omnipresence of the national bond, which endangers its independence. i also have serious doubts about the added value of this european patent as proposed by the council today. the council has added additional limits and there is still some question as to which fraud cases the european public prosecutor's office will be competent to deal with. this is all the more so if the council continues to oppose the inclusion of vat fraud. we must therefore recall that the european parliament's approval of the public prosecutor's office's file is not a given. it is therefore a warning to the council with a simple message: yes, we are in favour of the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office but not at any price.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust, as it is essential to strengthen cooperation and coordination between the judicial authorities of the different member states. only by working together can we conduct the investigations effectively. the council will, however, have to clarify the relations between eurojust and the european public prosecutor's office, as well as between the european public prosecutor's office and the european anti-fraud office (olaf), in order to define and better respect the role of each institution, as suggested in the resolution.
in writing. ‒ we hereby invite the council to define a clear and unified set of competences and procedures for the european public prosecutor's office, on the basis of the proposal for a directive on the fight against fraud to the union's financial interests by means of criminal law (the pif directive). we also call on the commission to intensify its efforts to reach an agreement on the inclusion of vat in the scope of the pif directive and to reopen negotiations with parliament to allow the creation of the european public prosecutor's office. we stress that jurisdiction over the offences defined in the pif directive should be vested in the european public prosecutor's office as a matter of priority and we strongly regret that the council does not allow the european public prosecutor's office jurisdiction in cases covered by the pif directive where union funding exceeds eur 10 000 but does not represent at least 50% of the co-financing. the council must abandon the rule depriving the european public prosecutor's office of the possibility of exercising its jurisdiction for all offences covered by the pif directive in which the damage to the union budget is less than or equal to that suffered by another victim.
in writing. ‒ according to the member states, around eur 500 million in revenue and expenditure is lost annually as a result of fraud. but there are other amounts in circulation that are much higher. in 2013, the commission proposed the creation of an independent european public prosecutor's office. this makes it easier to combat fraud. i voted for this report because we have an eu budget but we lacked a prosecutor's office to prosecute fraud at european level. that was weird. there must be someone who prosecutes fraud against the use of european funds. and besides, fraud doesn't stop at the borders. the same applies to the large sums of money that are being embezzled from the european budget. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i express my support and solidarity with the workers affected by the closures. the eu keeps its doors open under the guise of 'free trade' and gives competitors from third countries virtually unhindered access to several, often strategic, sectors of its economy without any reciprocity. however, greater efforts are needed proactively to save and/or even bring back european industry to our continent. the eu is, with all its rules and burdens, more of a brake than an engine in this respect. the member states themselves must be able to pursue an active (re) industrialization policy and to exercise economic patriotism. some speak of a 'fourth industrial revolution' in europe, stimulating local creativity and local production in a sustainable way.
in writing. ‒ this is a motion for a resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the light of the current caterpillar and alstom cases. in these sad social dramas it is very important that parliament sends a clear signal to the workers concerned and that it comes out with a large majority in favour of a european reindustrialisation policy. this includes a firm fight against tax evasion and a fair and effective industrial policy to safeguard jobs in europe. in addition, i believe that the stability and growth pact should be reviewed, as it, in combination with the esvg standards, has a significant impact on the public sector's investment capacity.
in writing. ‒ i approved the joint resolution because it contains several important priorities. it is of course calling for strong measures to support european industry, particularly in the field of research and development and innovation. the resolution also calls for the re-occupation of sites by local authorities to be facilitated, for redundancies to be punished and for subcontractors to be involved in negotiations in the event of collective redundancies. that is an encouraging result. but i will of course continue to defend these social priorities to the hilt at a time when the workers of caterpillar and ing are facing measures of unspeakable brutality.
in writing. ‒ i gave my unconditional support to the resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy. in the light of the recent and brutal restructuring announcements in caterpillar and alstom, it is urgent that the commission review the eu legislation on collective redundancies, provide support measures for workers and subcontractors and ensure that any institutional restructuring is carried out in a socially responsible manner, in line with eu and national regulations on information and consultation of workers and including local dialogue. in general, i find that the union is sorely lacking in a genuine industrial policy. i therefore strongly advocate that european industry should be seen as a strategic asset for growth and employment. it is time for the commission to look at the revision of the european rules governing trade defence instruments and the extension of the scope of application of competition rules. we need european giants to compete internationally.
in writing. i would like to express my sympathy and solidarity with the workers and subcontractors who have been victims of a brutal process that has taken everyone by surprise. like them, we were shocked by the announcement of the closure of the gosselies site by a company that had already undergone a major restructuring in 2013. in the face of such phenomena, concrete short- and long-term solutions must be considered without delay. the economic crisis has shown that the strongest industries are those that invest the most in innovation, r&d, energy efficiency, circular economy, etc. the european union is clearly lacking in public and private investment. we therefore call on the commission to develop a strategy for an ambitious, forward-looking reindustrialisation policy, fostering the emergence of european champions capable of tackling a globalised market and integrating into global competition. we must empower ourselves to be the engine of change and innovation. we must also focus on strengthening the defence mechanisms against dumping from third countries, in particular china. there are rules and they must be followed.
in writing. ‒ september 2016 was dramatic in terms of job losses. the american multinational caterpillar announced the dismissal of more than 2000 people in gosselies. on top of this, 3,000 additional jobs will be lost in the supply chain. the commission also found that the average profit margin of the sampled union producers was below the average profit margin of the sampled union producers. on top of that, the jobs lost at alstom in france. the european parliament today calls for a genuine european policy of reindustrialisation. the greens advocate a sustainable transition to a green economy with quality jobs. we need to use eu funds to do that. we also want to make state aid conditional and to see sustainable criteria in public procurement. it is not possible for multinationals to receive financial support and then move production to countries with lower social and environmental standards. we need to be able to anchor the knowledge and jobs locally. multinationals must adhere to socially responsible restructuring and respect social dialogue. unfortunately, the resolution does not address some of the causes of this kind of drama, such as wage competition, internal inequalities in the eu and lack of demand for raw materials, nor does it propose any concrete measures. we are, however, supporting this text out of solidarity with the workers of caterpillar and alstom.
in writing. ‒ the n-va would first of all like to express its concern for the thousands of workers and subcontractors affected by this closure. although it is not satisfied with every aspect of the resolution, it therefore wishes to support it. the commission's 'yes' vote is intended to send a strong signal that reindustrialisation and employment must be a top priority in europe. it is true that globalisation requires a policy of transposition. first of all, we must not give in to protectionist tendencies. international competition leads to net more jobs, not less. we also need to put job security ahead of job security. continuous technological change requires a labour market that is able to adapt quickly. it is the only way to safeguard our prosperity and employment. the eu can be expected to provide support for collective redundancies through the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). but a european transfer union will not solve unemployment. the resolution goes beyond this in praising the egf. it is up to the member states to make a full effort to implement structural reforms that maximise job creation and entrepreneurship. it is also important that the eu adequately respects the competences of the member states in this area. the resolution again misses the point by calling for eu harmonisation in the areas of taxation, social policy and budgetary matters. this is neither legal nor desirable for n-va.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text, led by my colleague maria arena and supported by hugues bayet, two meps from the belgian ps delegation. i regret, of course, the attempts of the epp to empty the text of its substance, echoing the concerns of caterpillar management rather than the workers who have been victimized. nevertheless, we have succeeded in getting important amendments through, including the one on social dumping and the concept of stock exchange layoffs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to show the commission that there is indeed a need to introduce a european reindustrialisation policy. the laid-off employees at caterpillar and alstrom need guidance on how to get a new job. we must also stress that labour costs, among other things, affect the competitiveness of european firms; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution by the european parliament. it is unfortunate that so many people at caterpillar and alstom have lost their jobs. this again shows the importance of the eu’s economic strength and competitive position. in order to achieve this, europe and our industries need to attract investment. as the resolution rightly points out, investment in energy efficiency provides a lot of opportunities here. such sustainable investment will lead to sustainable economic growth and consequently new jobs for our labour market. another measure that can attract new investment is a reduction in unnecessary administrative burdens. but when it comes to safeguarding our industry, europe needs to look at the future and recognise that a reindustrialisation will, for example, find its basis in digitalisation and the development of smart technologies. we also have to focus on giving these people a new future, by offering them new education and training opportunities, so they can keep contributing to society and the economy.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i know that after three minutes you will have your hammer and so on, as though this is not important about syria and the tragedy in syria. i find it like a kindergarten, the way we are debating such a tragedy there, and i have already used seven seconds now. but i disagree with the council; i disagree with its analysis. what the council is saying is: let’s continue with what we did in the past and the problems will be solved, and we are going to help the moderate forces in aleppo. well, we are not doing anything for the moderate forces in aleppo. that is the reality. we are not even capable of sending them aid, as we have tried to do several times, because we have failed in syria and we failed in aleppo. we failed first of all because the americans took a wrong decision years ago by putting a red line on the use of chemical weapons, and once assad used his chemical weapons we did nothing at all. we stopped our measures against the assad regime, but we have given the message to the assad regime that if you don’t use chemical weapons, you can do what you want. go forward to kill your people: we shall not disturb you. the second thing is the absence of europe – let’s be honest, we were absent in this whole conflict, and it is the americans and the russians who are negotiating above our heads. so, nevertheless, things are crystal clear. there is a problem here: the problem is that we have a key resolution of the un security council: resolution 2254. that is the key resolution, saying: stop the bombing of civilians, allow humanitarian access, limit the military campaign to fight whom? daesh and al-nusra. that is the security council resolution. and what the russians are doing is the exact opposite: they are bombing the civilians. they are stopping – in fact, blocking – humanitarian access, and they are not fighting daesh and not fighting al-nusra: they are fighting against the moderate forces in aleppo. that is what is happening. the only way to come out of this stalemate is to have a new strategy, and for the council, together with ms mogherini, and together with our american allies, to change their strategy. and the strategy can only be, in my opinion, three things. first of all, we need a no-fly zone over aleppo. we need a no-fly zone over aleppo, and actually if we don’t do it in the coming days and the coming weeks, it’s over, because the russians yesterday delivered an anti-air missile system that will make from aleppo not a no-fly zone but a free bombing zone for their airforce and for the airforce of the assad regime. that is what is happening. we have only a few days, a few weeks to change the course of aleppo. secondly, we also need, as we have discussed this morning, mr weber, in my opinion, a credible sanction plan for the non-compliance of russia and of the assad regime with the un security council resolution. finally, the last lesson to learn: let’s start to make our own defence community and to develop our own capabilities, because that is the only way for the coming years to secure our neighbourhood. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the forces, dear colleague, were the normal, ordinary citizens – the students, the doctors, the lawyers, the people from the middle class – who started the revolution in syria. the revolution in syria was not different from the revolution in tunisia; it was not different from the things that happened in egypt. it was exactly the same. what happened is that we did not help them, and when you create a vacuum by not helping them, then the most awful forces of the sunni jihadi came into that vacuum in 2011: daesh, al-nusra and others. the only thing we can do now is go back to the past and say: let’s help at least these moderate people there, these normal civilians who are fighting assad and who are blocked in aleppo and who will be exterminated if the us, the international community and we do not take responsibility.
syria is the failure of a state, of the international community, of world leaders, of humanity. aleppo, one of the oldest continuously inhabited places on our planet, lies in ruins. images of shrouds and complete destruction. it's repulsive. the little boy omran, one of the symbols of terror, and the many other children who go to bed every night without the guarantee of being there in the morning. the failure of humanity and everyone is a spectator. the united states is clashing with russia over the ability or inability to make peace. the united nations is drowning out yet another cry for help. nato is speaking harsh language. it shows the world's desperation at so much barbarism. the european union is barely involved in that debate. is the fear of messing up the house overwhelming? missing the vision? what's the matter? the 25 million euros of emergency humanitarian aid that the eu is now releasing and the humanitarian actions that it is preparing, however commendable and necessary, are only symbolic because they do not stop the rage in the cities of syria. they are not stopping the immense influx of refugees coming our way. the european union has every reason to speak out strongly against the slaughter that assad is carrying out among his own people with the support of russian bombs. i therefore also support the initiative of a group of dutch academics who recently called for the seriousness of crimes against humanity to be recognised. to sanction regimes that are complicit and to hold individual perpetrators accountable.
it is dramatic. i think everybody here has said it today: the attacks on the convoys, the chemical weapons. the images are holding me. last week, a belgian newspaper carried the headline: a mother in a chair, covered in dust, with her two children pressed to her side, dead. syrian children as young as five years old have never experienced a minute without war in their lives. they deserve a life without violence. the council's colleagues, europe too needs to be involved. the instability at the external borders, the migration, the rise of religious extremism. we have to intervene. let europe show its leadership. it says here: i would like to ask you to establish a no-fly zone, to stop the bombing, to allow the humanitarian aid we are now giving to enter, to combat the terrorists, but above all: the european union must also consult with the united states and russia and build that european defence union. let's take that step. let us no longer rely on others. it's enough. please do something.
for the ecr group i received a letter from mrs mogherini in response to our concerns about the human rights situation in the democratic republic of congo and our suggestion for targeted sanctions. her reply was a sign of the commitment we know from the high representative. and you know how that goes: through social media, her words reached the other side of the world in no time. those words create hope. but i sometimes wonder who opens all our letters, whether or not they read and sort them, alphabetically or chronologically. there must be palaces full of our letters of admonition. forgive my cynicism, but president kabila confirmed yesterday with a smile that the elections are being postponed in the interests of the congo. in the interests of the congo, no further details. we got it from the chairman of the election commission: the president of the republic shall be elected by the national assembly. in other words: no elections before the end of 2018. protests against this are being stifled in the bud. blood flowed through the streets of kinshasa. however, there are many congolese who are doing well for their country. for example, dr mukwege, who was seen on flemish television a few days ago. the gynaecologist and human rights activist who has been involved in the rehabilitation of victims of horrific violence in eastern congo and for which this parliament awarded him the sakharov prize in 2014. he hides his contempt for what kabila does not do and he names the problems as they are. the constitution is reduced to a piece of paper. the most audacious violence makes him angry. it's votes like dr. mukwege's that the congo needs. i believe that civic movements that endorse and embrace the constitution and democracy can restore the chaos. but not without international support. it is therefore high time that the european union replaced its impassioned speeches and letters with action. in my view, this could be a travel ban, a freezing of the accounts of all those responsible for the violent repression. the united states has once again been in our favour and has already decided to take such measures. the best way to serve the interests of the congolese people is to ensure that president kabila steps down in time and that presidential elections are held in line with the congolese constitution.
mr president, i am particularly surprised at the council's optimism when it says that there has been progress in the dialogue. i would like to ask him a question: what progress is he talking about exactly? on the contrary, the violent repression of 19 and 20 september shows that this dialogue is not working. this so-called dialogue set up by mr kabila's majority is not working. moreover, the catholic church - which is an important player in this dialogue - has decided to withdraw from the dialogue as long as it does not have the guarantee of an inclusive framework that allows a compromise acceptable to all. and this compromise must include the following elements: a totally impartial ceni, a credible timetable, important means to organise elections, the fight against impunity and, finally, the release of political prisoners today - not a release as announced by mr kabila, but an unconditional release of these political prisoners, which also allows them to campaign. indeed, to release political prisoners by telling them that if they campaign, they will find themselves back in prison, i don't think that's a conducive environment for open elections. finally, i think, and i also share the view, that we should have targeted sanctions and i ask the council again: what is the position of the member states with regard to these targeted sanctions as decided by the united states? we are told that if the united states had not issued these targeted sanctions, the repression of the 19th would have been much stronger than it is today. i would like to end by mentioning the eastern part of the congo, which is again under rebel control. these are the current rebels, but also those who came from south sudan. it is important to be concerned about what is happening in the east, and particularly the funding of these rebels through conflict minerals. we have this legislation, we expect the council to be able to adopt what we have adopted here in parliament.
the situation is worse than we think. i'm hearing from family and friends firsthand that the situation is taking dramatic proportions. congo is engulfed in civil war and well on its way to becoming a second syria. those are not my words, but the words of the people on the ground. and what do i see? i see the united states is freezing the assets of a number of generals. i note that the americans are putting pressure on the congolese government to call elections. then i ask myself: where is europe? are we going to wait until the congo is indeed a second syria? or are we going to take action? mr. secretary, i'm disappointed in your statement. we too must apply pressure, impose targeted sanctions if elections are not held, freeze assets, impose an entry ban on those guilty of human rights violations. and president kabila should be clear that he cannot escape a summons to the international criminal court if he continues to terrorize his fellow citizens. my heart bleeds when i see what's happening in the congo. i call for action.
"blue card" question. what is it? i really want to ask you a question. i want you to imagine: you're a woman. you are being brutally raped, brutally taken by a man. you are pregnant. you're forced to have that child, and that child looks like your rapist. do you think that mother could love that child? do you think you're doing the fetus a favor? please, give women the right to their bodies, protect women's rights and the fetus.
madam president, as has already been said, the current polish law against abortion is one of the most restrictive in europe today. despite this, two citizen initiatives have been put on the table: an obscurantist initiative, which further reduces rights, and a progressive initiative, which expands abortion rights. the polish parliament decided to withdraw the progressive initiative and to consider the regressive initiative on abortion. that is why when you say that there is no will on the part of polish political actors to support an obscurantist law, you are lying. that's the one he was chosen to examine. i will speak about the current law: it is this one, although it is restrictive, it does not allow legal abortion for three reasons. the first reason is conscientious objection in poland. while you, commissioner, must ensure that the state organizes this conscientious objection by guaranteeing the alternative, in poland the alternative does not exist because doctors no longer want to perform legal abortion because of this conscientious objection, which is not properly applied. i therefore ask you, commissioner, instead of saying that this is not your responsibility, to take your responsibility and activate this conscientious objection properly at polish level. the second reality is that the lack of prenatal consultation - which is now allowed for abortion in poland - means that, when the malformation can be diagnosed, it is too late, because these prenatal consultations are not organized. commissioner, you are responsible for this and you must do it. the third reason is the lack of (inaudible) and education. i'm sorry, this is a european competence, you don't activate this competence. it's your... (the president cut off the speaker's microphone)
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all the members who have participated in this debate for their close interest in the preparations for the cop22 conference in marrakesh. success in marrakesh means demonstrating that implementation of paris is moving full steam ahead globally on all the elements of the paris package. the agenda for marrakesh is very rich; unlike in paris, where there was only one big deliverable, we have a variety of outcomes and the challenge will be to weave them together to tell a convincing story. for us, this story has to be one of real step—change after paris, the world moving full steam ahead in the implementation of paris. marrakesh has to demonstrate that commitments are being implemented all over the world and enable more immediate action. we can see two very broad areas. first, formal deliverables under the negotiating process. in particular, we have important conclusions to reach on loss and damage, with the review of the warsaw international mechanism, which is fundamental for islands, and on capacity building. and, of course, we need to make progress in building the paris framework. the second broad area is enhancing action and transparency before 2020, because it is essential that we clearly demonstrate that countries are swiftly putting in place ambitious climate policies, that they are gearing up to implement their ndcs and integrate their ndcs into national development planning in full coherence with sdgs? and we have an opportunity for progress on climate finance with a ministerial event which i hope can be pragmatic and action-oriented. we will continue the multilateral process for monitoring, reporting and verification, because this raises the profile of all countries’ efforts and is a valuable experience for the future. i would also like to see a politically visible high level event on global climate action agenda that will inspire future action. it is very clear that there is much work still to do. however, as we look to implementing our commitments on the ground and progression in all areas on the paris agreement. we in the european union, already between this year and next year, will deliver all the needed legislation to implement our paris commitments. we already have the emission trading system, and therefore certain decisions, and we will come forward in december with an ambitious package for electricity market design, energy efficiency directives and energy performance of buildings and a renewables directive, and at the beginning of the year we will come with co2 standards for cars and light vans. the european union not only has ambitious targets, it is enforcing all the policies and is already working with parliament to deliver our commitments. we are doing our homework and we must help other countries to build capacity to deliver their homework, because for us it is easier, but for developing countries we have to build capacity for everything, for implementing the policies to be able to have monitoring systems, and that is why the capacity building mechanism will be fundamental in paris. i count on the support of this parliament and i can assure you of my intention as always to keep members of the european parliament very closely informed of developments in the negotiations. these negotiations will be different to the one in paris but the european union, with a high ambition coalition, will work steadily so that we make real progress in cop22 in marrakesh.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i am glad that, after yesterday’s successful completion of ratification of the paris agreement on behalf of the european union, today’s debate was already focused on its implementation. secondly, i would like to say how much we appreciate your support, honourable members, in outreach efforts to our international partners. this is very much appreciated. lastly, the council is of course committed to working together in the run-up to the marrakesh conference in order to achieve the best possible results.
in writing. with the historically swift adoption of the paris agreement, the eu is showing its commitment to the fight against climate change. it is a good start to get things in order internally and to ensure the eu's leadership on climate and energy transition. such engagement creates great economic opportunities that benefit all sectors, citizens, businesses and governments. this requires a strong effort from all actors, but offers unique opportunities. we must of course do so with the necessary caution, so that we do not push our companies out of the eu, but create a framework which encourages and attracts sustainable investment.
in writing. today we are debating new rules on the transparency register and the regulation of lobbying in the european institutions. in a news story marked by the close links between barroso, during and after his term, and the investment bank goldman sachs, or neelie kroes and her offshore company, the debate is heating up. ethics and transparency must be key values in relations between elected officials, citizens and pressure groups. the proposal is positive but does not go far enough. i am bitterly sorry that the heads of cabinet, directors and heads of unit are not included in the proposal, when they have a large share of responsibility in the european decision-making process. it is also essential to have the means to control and verify the information in the register and to agree on penalties in the event of fraud. strict rules must be applied to ensure transparency and ethical conduct in the day-to-day work of the institutions. and those who break these rules have no place within our walls!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i order a pizza every now and then, perhaps after a lengthy plenary debate at a quarter past eleven in the evening, and this pizza is usually delivered in cardboard boxes. now, can i be sure that there's no health-threatening element in this cardboard box that might be leaching onto the pizza? that's the question. the answer is probably, or most likely, no. or rather, the answer depends on the country i live in. in this area we are talking about, are we a single market or not? if only four of the 17 materials in food packaging laid down in the regulation are regulated throughout europe, then we are not a single market, and we cannot be. i therefore very much welcome the report presented by mrs schaldemose. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european parliament. this is particularly true of substances such as endocrine disruptors. this is particularly true of an endocrine disruptor called bisphenol. i am very much in favour of a complete ban on bisphenol in europe, contrary to party or group policy. what's bad for babies is bad for me. so there's a very simple logic to it. the consumer's trust is also being jeopardized. so, in general, we need to have uniform standards in europe for all 17 materials and their testing methods. the risk assessment must then include not only the individual substances but also their interaction with other substances. this is very important. in conclusion, only common rules can guarantee a high level of health protection. and i have to be able to -- and when i say "i", i speak on behalf of all consumers -- to be confident that the packaging of the food is not going to make me sick in the long run. this should apply to the whole of europe. and i know you, commissioner jourová, as a committed advocate of the single market: take this matter seriously and come up with clever solutions!
- a writer. only by listening to the opposition can a ruling majority learn to be critical itself, not by locking up opposition leaders. it is a principle that every democratic society should uphold. in october 2012, ingabire was sentenced by a rwandan court. the rwandan opposition leader had committed two crimes: conspiracy against the authorities and minimization of genocide. however, independent international reports show that the process was far from fair and impartial. it is therefore good that we follow up her case and put it in the spotlight, because we must condemn politically inspired processes at all times and everywhere. rwanda can play an important stabilising role in the great lakes region. the country has made remarkable economic and social progress. if we are moving towards a real rule of law, a real inclusive democracy, then there is much to be done in the region. this requires pressure from the international community. the eu must therefore keep its aid to the rwandan institutions in perspective and conditional on real progress on human rights and freedom of expression.
the resolution before us today, madam president, is, in my view, more about the importance of respect for the rule of law than about a particular case. indeed, according to several amnesty international reports, journalists, human rights defenders and members of opposition political parties are working under extremely difficult conditions in rwanda today. that is why i would have preferred a more comprehensive resolution, at the end of our mission as the committee on women's rights and gender equality in rwanda. rwanda is a strategic player in the great lakes region and, although it is seen as a model for women's participation in political life, the challenges facing the country are still significant, particularly in relation to freedom of expression, the rule of law, political diversity, social protection for the most vulnerable populations, traceability of minerals and its role in the international conference on the great lakes region, with the corollary of financing armed groups. so i think it would be important to be able to have a global resolution on rwanda rather than a particular resolution.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as in 2013, the alde group has decided not to co-sign the emergency resolution on mrs victoire ingabire, president of the fdu-inkingi. i quite agree with mrs arena when she says that we should have worked on a resolution directly affecting the functioning of democracy in rwanda, instead of isolating a case that is indisputably ambiguous. that is why we are not going to follow this resolution. the resolution is too ambiguous, prone to confusion, expresses unverifiable accusations, stating that ms victoire ingabire was convicted without evidence and, therefore, for political reasons. i took the trouble to meet with the prosecutor who handled this matter. i naturally asked all the questions that pertained to the statements that i had heard and that had been made. not one of these questions has been answered by the prosecutor. i would also like to point out that 22 years after a heinous genocide, it is understandable that the authorities are afraid of allowing ethnic strife to spread again. but everyone knows that mrs ingabire has contacts with the fdlr interahamwe, who were responsible for the 1994 genocide. it must be said too. i was with guy verhofstadt witness to the tremendous courage of the rwandan people in a drama that is in the sordid gallery of the most abominable of history. rwanda is recovering thanks to the will of the rwandan authorities and, above all, the rwandan people to lift their country up. i just want to remind you that the rwandan parliament has 51 women out of 80 in the chamber of deputies, or 63.8%, 10 women out of 26 in the senate, or 30.5%. it is ranked at this level as the leading position worldwide. the women in parliaments global forum, chaired by silvana koch-mehrin, our former colleague, is opening an office in kigali soon. rwanda has 11 out of 28 women in government, or 40%. the death penalty has been abolished. it respects sexual orientation. that too must be said! i know, of course, that human rights must be better respected, that we must work on them, that we must push the authorities to do so, that goes without saying. but in this particular case, i think it is a mistake to make this a resolution on a personal matter. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i'll leave that to your judgment, ma'am. i know that ms. ingabire has contacts with the fdlr. what's the matter? do you want me to tell you? because i know this rwanda case perhaps a little better than most. i've been following him since the beginning. what's the problem in rwanda? the fdlr, who are the genocidal ones, want to become an honorable political party in rwanda, and the authorities are obviously reluctant to do so. they fear that turning this genocidal group into a political party will reignite ethnic strife. and it's true that the authorities don't want it! you know, in some european countries, there was a time when parties, which had played a very serious role during the war, were also banned. but i don't hear anyone talking about it or referring to it, it has to be said, too.
we have a moral obligation to condemn loudly and clearly the use of weapons of mass destruction, to eliminate them. anytime, anywhere, and especially the use of chemical weapons. it is a war crime, a crime against humanity, a violation of international law. amnesty international has a well-documented report with eyewitness and photographic evidence of the use of chemical weapons in sudan, directed against civilians, in a remote area of darfur. with hundreds of casualties, including many children. in sudan, as in the rest of the world, citizens have the right to protection. the international community must use all its levers to achieve this. it also provides for the provision of humanitarian aid, disarmament. today, the same war crimes are being committed in darfur as in 2004. then the world woke up to the human rights violations. the only thing that's changed since then is that the world isn't watching. that's the real drama. it's up to us and you, commissioner, to change that.
the sudan is plagued by many, many problems. i think everybody here has listed them today. moreover, since 1989 the country has been held hostage by a ruler who oppresses and terrorizes his people. there is no freedom of the press and internet traffic is severely restricted. it is the same government that last week dropped chemical weapons in darfur, killing many people, many children. europe has provided eur 196 million to sudan since 2010 and through the emergency trust fund for africa, an additional eur 100 million has been allocated from 2016. it is a shame that we continue to support a government while women are being raped and chemical weapons are being used. so i call on you today: we must send a strong european signal, stop the financial flows towards a government that so treats human rights. it is time for a strong european signal.
mr president, the conviction of andy hall, a human rights defender, and particularly here of the rights of migrant workers, is a catastrophic signal for all supporters of human rights in thailand. indeed, while it was already difficult for the latter to do their jobs properly, this ruling will make the abuse victims hesitate to open up about working and living conditions in thailand. instead of fulfilling its obligation to protect human rights activists, thailand has been dragged into a lawsuit that was only there to establish the omnipotence of companies that want to suppress information about their abuses against workers. unfortunately, mr. hall's case is not unique, and many human rights defenders are being sued for defamation. it is high time thailand understood that it needs to look at its judicial system and stop preventing human rights defenders from doing their job.
in writing. ‒ the financial instruments standard, launched in 2008 in response to the economic crisis, will be endorsed and will apply in 2018. a real big bang for financial institutions, which will have to adopt a new risk management framework. in practice, this means that in their consolidated accounts they must review the way in which all their financial assets are classified and accounted for, and also the methods of depreciating their claims. clearly, the number of cases where they will have to use the fair value method, rather than historical cost, will increase very sharply. in addition, provisioning will be made not only for actual losses related to credit deterioration but also for expected losses (which requires provisioning forecasts for loan portfolios based on different risk factors).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which seeks to question the commission on the international financial reporting standard ifrs 9 (financial instruments). the three-month period for the european parliament to scrutinise the commission's draft implementing measures relating to that standard expires on 7 october 2016. parliament has several questions: • how does the commission intend to address concerns about the potential negative effects of ifrs 9 on long-term investment? • how does the commission intend to respond to concerns raised by the delay between the entry into force of ifrs 9 and the new insurance contract standard (ifrs 17)? • does the commission consider that the provisions published by the international accounting standards board are appropriate and satisfactory for the european union? • how does the commission intend to counter the potentially negative effects of ifrs 9 on financial stability, in particular a potential decline in the own funds of banks? • what is the commission's view on the links between ifrs 9 and other types of financial regulation, such as prudential requirements?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the international financial reporting standards ifrs 9. ifrs 9 is a financial instruments standard that will become effective on 1 january 2018 and replace ias 39. however, it has not been subject to a quantitative impact analysis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of information on the use of the euro in the provision of financial services, including the provision of information on the use of the euro in the provision of financial services, and the provision of information on the use of the euro in the provision of financial services.
in writing. ‒ the parliament acknowledges that ifrs 9 improves on ias 39 in that the 'movement from a 'loss incurred' model to a 'loss expected' depreciation model solves the problem of the inadequate and inefficient accounting procedure for loan losses. however, we note that ifrs 9 introduces a lot of subjectivity into this process and emphasise that in this respect the auditors have profound differences of opinion and give little concrete guidance. we therefore ask the european supervisory authorities to develop such guidelines, in cooperation with the commission and efrag, in order to prevent any abuse of the discretion of the managing entities.
in writing. ‒ syria has been in a civil war for over five years, and the conflict has already claimed more than a quarter of a million lives. it is estimated that up to 14 million people in syria are in need of humanitarian assistance. nearly 5 million syrians are in hard-to-reach or besieged areas of the country. despite international efforts to achieve a ceasefire, violence has escalated in recent weeks, with the northern syrian city of aleppo in particular being rocked by massive bombardments. i join the majority in parliament in calling on all parties to the conflict in syria, and in particular russia and the assad regime, to refrain from all attacks on civilians. i also condemn the recent attacks on hospitals and a relief convoy. i also support the call on all members of the international support group for syria to resume negotiations on a stable ceasefire and to hold those responsible for war crimes and crimes against humanity to account.
in writing. ‒ it was essential that the european parliament take a position on the situation in syria. the country has been bombarded daily since 2011 and the situation is only getting worse. we have denounced these atrocities and have proposed solutions.
the war and hostilities in syria continue unabated after 5 years. the city of aleppo and its people are currently being wiped off the map. in recent weeks, heavy air raids on the city, including bombing of hospitals and medical facilities, have again claimed the lives of many hundreds of innocent people. according to the syrian observatory, the death toll from the five-year war has risen to more than 370,000 by the middle of this year. the assad regime is blamed for most of the deaths. this madness must stop. the air strikes must stop and an immediate ceasefire must allow humanitarian aid to reach the people in need. the european parliament, in this resolution, reiterates its call on all parties concerned to bring an end to this horrible war. parliament also called on the eu and its high representative to come up with a common eu strategy and to step up efforts to find a lasting political solution for syria and to play a more prominent role in the mediation of a peace agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria, because the heavy aerial bombardments, particularly in aleppo, have caused human and diplomatic damage. the european union is one of the main providers of humanitarian aid to the people. without international unity, it will be very difficult to find a negotiated solution to the war in syria. attacks on civilians are intolerable and they also impede the delivery of much-needed humanitarian aid. russia and the regime of bashar al-assad must put an end to the hostilities and open the way to humanitarian organisations helping the population as a matter of urgency. the european union must work towards the respect of the agreements and obligations entered into within the international syria support group.
in writing. ‒ as syrian regime forces advance into eastern aleppo city, moscow has deployed s-300 air defense systems in the port city of tartus, where it has a military base. diplomacy is at a standstill. the eastern districts of aleppo have been under a flood of bombs of unprecedented intensity for more than ten days. as outrage grows in western capitals, diplomacy seems to have come to a standstill as the russians and americans have broken off dialogue. while washington said it was considering "diplomatic and military options", russia has deployed s-300 air defense systems to tartus, a coastal city in northwestern syria where it has military port facilities. with its s-300 and s-400s, russia is providing air defense for its two anchorages in syria, the port of tartus and the hmeimim air base in latakia province, where the russian air force has dozens of bombers, ground attack aircraft and helicopters. these batteries are used to respond to the threat of missiles fired from the mediterranean sea. aleppo has become a slaughterhouse!
in writing. - the situation is dramatic. the images are holding me. a mother, dead in a chair, covered in dust, with her two children by her side. syrian children as young as five have known nothing but war in their lives. they deserve a life without violence. and europe too is in great need of solutions. the instability at our external borders, the migration, the rise of religious extremism, make it clear that there is no alternative but to act. europe must finally show its leadership. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution on syria.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this parliamentary resolution because it is important to recognise the gravity of the situation in syria. the european union plays an important role in supporting the refugees who are a result of this conflict. however, it is important that we act collectively and in a unified way through the high representative of the eu and the administration that supports her. i support the call on some parties involved immediately to stop the bombing of civilians and other forms of attacks on these vulnerable groups. at the same time, i strongly welcome the humanitarian aid and support for aleppo that is being organised. finally, i support the call to the parties involved to resume peaceful negotiations and recognise the importance of the un special envoy in facilitating these negotiations.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the paris climate agreement, voted this week by the european parliament, as a landmark event in the fight against climate change and for multilateralism. we believe that this is an ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding agreement, that its adoption, together with the announcement by 187 parties before the end of cop21 of planned nationally determined contributions (ndcs), marks a decisive turning point in global, comprehensive and collective action, and that once implemented, this agreement and these contributions will definitively and irreversibly accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient and climate-neutral global economy. we intend to work tirelessly in the same way for cop22.
in writing. ‒ the cop 22 resolution outlines the european parliament's priorities for the next un climate conference to be held in marrakech in november. the resolution contains many positive elements. the importance of ratifying and implementing the paris agreement on climate change is rightly emphasised. the nva delegation gave its full approval to this agreement earlier this week. after all, we can only fight climate change effectively with full and united efforts. the eu cannot solve the problem alone, we need allies. the resolution also stresses the need to reduce emissions from shipping and aviation, limit the impact of carbon leakage and exploit the potential of climate diplomacy. the n-va wants to combine economic growth and prosperity with a low-carbon economy. this implies making sustainable, efficient and effective choices that we can sustain for years to come and linking ambition with a sense of reality. the explicit demand for a climate finance tax and the call for earmarking revenues from the emissions trading system are problematic in this context. that is why the n-va delegation abstained in the final vote.
in writing. in this resolution, the european parliament sets out its position on the climate conference in marrakesh in november. the ratification of the paris agreement has made implementation of the climate plan a priority. this means that the binding aspects of the agreement, such as the ambition to reduce greenhouse gases to zero in the long term, the transition to a zero-carbon economy, and limiting temperature rise to 1.5°c, will be effectively implemented. the commission is asked to come up with a long-term strategy for a zero-carbon economy. the transition to a climate-friendly economy also creates a platform for new and sustainable employment. this resolution rightly emphasizes the importance of forests and their capacity to mitigate climate change. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat climate change and to ensure that the eu's climate policy is not distorted by the threat of climate change. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy sector is not left behind in the current crisis.
in writing. ‒ two days after the solemn session in which the european parliament ratified the paris agreement on climate change, the climate issue was back on the agenda this afternoon with the vote on the resolution on the marrakesh conference (cop 22). the task ahead for the parties meeting from 7 to 18 november 2016 is immense if they are to achieve the goal of keeping the global temperature rise below 2°c compared to the pre-industrial era. six leading climate scientists have written a report, published by the ngo universal ecological fund, to express concern about the acceleration of global warming and the practical impossibility of meeting the paris commitment without redoubling efforts. and that is the problem in the absence of a binding mechanism in this international treaty and without more precision on how to mobilise $100 billion annually for climate action by 2020. this means that cop22 has 'bread on the table'. the carbon-free world is still a pipe dream, 82% of all the world's energy still comes from the combustion of oil, coal and natural gas!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 6 october 2016 on the implementation of the paris agreement and on the conference of the parties to the 2016 united nations framework convention on climate change (cop22), to be held in marrakech, morocco. the resolution commits the european parliament to ratifying the paris agreement as soon as possible and to working towards its implementation and calls for the european union to be an integral part of the delegation to cop 22. the marrakesh negotiations are aimed at making progress on the key elements of the paris agreement and it is therefore appropriate for the european parliament to attend these coordination meetings.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the paris climate agreement, voted this week by the european parliament, as a landmark event in the fight against climate change and for multilateralism. we believe that this is an ambitious, balanced, equitable and legally binding agreement, that its adoption, together with the announcement by 187 parties before the end of cop21 of planned nationally determined contributions (ndcs), marks a decisive turning point in global, comprehensive and collective action, and that once implemented, this agreement and these contributions will definitively and irreversibly accelerate the transition to a climate-resilient and climate-neutral global economy. we intend to work tirelessly in the same way for cop22
in writing. ‒ global climate action must be based on sound science. the report urges developed countries, and especially the eu, to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions drastically and more than they have so far pledged. i voted in favour of this report because there is an urgent need to ratify and implement the paris agreement.
in writing. ‒ food comes into contact with other materials on a daily basis, such as packaging, kitchen utensils, cutlery, etc. depending on the ingredients, these contact materials may transfer elements harmful to health to food. these elements can be harmful not only because of the individual ingredients (such as bisphenol) but also because of their interaction with other substances. currently, only four of the 17 substances are subject to common eu rules. as a result, most food contact materials are regulated in a heterogeneous way, with some states being very strict and others not. the present report is therefore to be welcomed because it advocates a harmonized approach. i believe that only a uniform standard can guarantee a high standard of human health. i also fully supported the call for a total ban on bisphenol throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report by the danish socialist christel schaldemose on the implementation of the regulation on materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs (plastic packaging, regenerated cellulose, cardboard, printing inks, etc.), as it is clear that an assessment of the hazardousness of these materials is of paramount importance for the health of citizens. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety recognises that the framework regulation in question constitutes a sound legal basis, the objectives of which remain relevant. however, they consider that union-level action is necessary to address the lack of specific union measures and the identified shortcomings in risk assessment, traceability, compliance and control. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass of less than 100 kg.
in writing. ‒ the n-va strongly supported the resolution on the implementation of legislation on materials in contact with food. food is very often in contact with certain materials such as cutlery, crockery, kitchenware and packaging. proper testing of these materials is essential to prevent contamination of food and to protect public health. the implementation of the existing 2004 european legislation can and must be improved. all the opportunities provided for by the legislation must be exploited: the commission has also proposed that the rules on the protection of the environment be amended to include the following: the legislation provides for the possibility of establishing european rules for 17 materials. so far, this has only been done for four materials. member states also have the possibility of drawing up their own rules in the absence of european measures, but this threatens to fragment the internal market. there is a need for a level playing field. this is a win-win for producers and consumers: companies producing fcms can compete fairly and consumers are protected equally across the eu. the federal government in belgium is supporting this and has recently sent a letter to the commission together with a number of like-minded member states calling for further harmonisation to be done urgently.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because it is clear that the eu should further harmonise safety requirements for materials that are widely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, kitchenware and dishware. current legislation provides for 17 substances, but only four of them are currently harmonised at european level and are therefore sufficiently controlled for their impact on human health. the remainder is left to the discretion of the member states. the lack of harmonised criteria therefore raises a number of problems. some countries have high levels of protection, others do not. however, we now know from various studies that, depending on their composition and properties, some substances in packaging can transfer their components when they come into contact with food. these substances are therefore potentially hazardous to health. this is why the eu should review current legislation so that food safety means the same thing throughout europe.
the european parliament gives the highest priority to food safety. and rightly so, for safe food is not just about what you put on your plate but also about the materials in which food is prepared, served, stored, or packaged. potentially toxic ingredients in packaging can contaminate food, posing additional health risks to the user. some of these substances have been linked to chronic diseases, metabolic disorders, allergies, and neurological defects. by eliminating the use of these substances from food contact products, you not only target prevention, you also save on health care costs. in a single european market, it is of the utmost importance to create a level playing field and to guarantee the same safe products to consumers wherever they live. implementation of the recommendations contained in this report will be an important step forward in ensuring food safety, a higher level of consumer protection and the proper functioning of the internal market for fcm. better cooperation and coordination between member states on the rapid alert system for foodstuffs should also help to prevent health risks more quickly and effectively.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the implementation of regulation (ec) no 1935/2004 on materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. this is a matter of concern to european citizens in their daily lives, since there are many materials intended to come into contact with food. this report calls on the commission to revise the current regulatory framework. it is important to strengthen the evaluation of substances in these materials and to ensure their traceability in order to protect the health of european consumers. i am also pleased that the text contains a specific amendment calling for a ban on bisphenol a in food contact materials.
in writing. ‒ food and food products often come into contact with other materials, such as kitchenware, tableware or packaging. in view of the possible 'interaction' with food, general safety rules apply in europe and specific measures can be taken for 17 materials listed in the annex. to date, there are only rules for four materials, namely plastics, ceramics, regenerated cellulose and active and intelligent materials. for the other 13 materials, member states may lay down their own rules. for example, some countries have strict regulations for paper, cardboard, metal and alloys, glass, coatings, silicones, rubber and printing inks, while others are less strict. the implementation report shows clearly how this lack of harmonisation between europe and the member states has led to a lack of protection for public health and a subordination of consumer interests. it called for specific rules to be drawn up for the most harmful and in-demand food contact materials (paper, cardboard, coatings, inks and adhesives). the greens made a link with hormone disruptors, reach, the cocktail effects and nanomaterials. and with a circular economy. we ask for better control and uniform testing. and we call for a total ban on the use of bisphenol a. so it's a good thing for our health.
in writing. ‒ packaging and containers, kitchen utensils, dishes: all materials in contact with your food but with a doubt about their safety. the european parliament's report, which was voted on this afternoon, says that there are 15,000 different substances in these materials, most of which are unknown. toxicity, traceability, lack of controls and harmonisation: the european parliament raises the alarm and considers that the danger to human health of a transfer of chemicals contained in these materials to food is real. some countries have rules in place but there is no real consistency between member states. in addition to the health risk, the situation is damaging economically. we also see shortcomings in the traceability of the various components and a lack of official controls: this is not acceptable, we are not playing with the health of citizens!
in writing. ‒ food contact materials and articles (fcms) are used in daily life mainly in the form of food packaging, kitchenware, tableware, etc. when they come into contact with food, and depending on their composition and properties, the different materials may react differently. in such cases, chemicals from fcms may pose a risk to human health or lead to adverse changes in the composition of the food. the legislation should ensure a high level of consumer protection while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market for fcm products. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because the health of european consumers is important to me. the food that we eat on a daily basis comes into contact with many different materials that can have a variety of chemical compositions. the regulation that this resolution concerns ensures that the safety of our food is not affected by these products. i also welcome the important role of efsa which is recognised in it and the call for increased cooperation between efsa and the european chemicals agency. it also correctly points out the importance of clarity on the use of the relevant substances for our companies, especially for our smes. this will also make it easier for them to produce the relevant safety assessments. finally, with regard to the future, we should not only regard the effects of substances in an isolated form, but further scientific research should be done on the effects of their combinations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the findings and proposals made by the members of the committee on legal affairs. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, was adopted by the council on 14 june. they also call on the eu institutions to agree on more realistic deadlines for implementing regulations and directives and to increase transparency in the application of eu law. the commission is invited to present a legislative proposal on a european law on administrative procedure and to make compliance with union law a real political priority, which it will have to implement in close collaboration with parliament.
in writing. under article 17 of the treaty on european union, the commission is the 'guardian of the treaties' and ensures, under the supervision of the court of justice of the european union (cjeu), that the treaties and european decisions are properly applied. however, as in 2013, the areas most affected by infringements are those related to the environment, health, consumer protection, mobility and transport. justice is one of the pillars of our social model and community law must be respected. i therefore welcome the thirty-second annual report on the monitoring of the application of union law and would like the commission to refer the matter to the cjeu for infringement proceedings to be brought.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on monitoring the application of union law (annual report 2014). it contains important information on the actual transposition and practical application of union law. the resolution stressed in particular that the european parliament has little access to information on formal infringement procedures. the text contains a series of recommendations and proposals to overcome these problems.
in writing. ‒ the n-va abstained from voting on this report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the greatest obstacle to this report, however, is what it does not say or even conceals. the report should not have omitted a reference to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality (which was deliberately avoided during the negotiations). the same applies to the demand for better implementation of the services directive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. this seems like evidence, but it's not always the case. for example, the dublin rules which determine which member state is responsible for an asylum application, but which the commission apparently turns a blind eye to. another example is the no-bailout rule enshrined in the treaty, which has also been trampled on by the eu on several occasions.
in writing. ‒ we decided to follow the rapporteur on this case. the thirty-second annual report of the commission on monitoring the application of union law contains, as usual, interesting information on the actual transposition and practical application of european law. the report shows that the environment, transport, the internal market and services were the areas where most infringement cases remained pending in 2014. however, bearing in mind that parliament still has little access to information on this procedure and on ongoing cases, it seems difficult to assess to what extent the decrease in infringement procedures is really a sign of better compliance by member states with union law, rather than compromise solutions between the commission and the infringing states. we are convinced that the european parliament itself could and should play a more structured role in analysing how the applicant countries comply with union law and in developing appropriate support for them in this regard.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament prepares an annual report on the monitoring of the application of european law. it identifies the weaknesses and points out to the commission possible improvements. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for better monitoring of all the applications of european law in all the member states and also in the candidate countries, so that european law is applied equally everywhere.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with which i fully agree on this matter, considers that this draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the risk analysis of these crops by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. we therefore reject this request.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation did not support the objections to the approval of a number of the gos for the following reasons: the complainants disagree with the current legislative framework for gmos and therefore refuse any further approval. what we are discussing today is a de facto moratorium on gmos. the commission did not exceed its mandate: where member states do not reach a qualified majority, the commission is empowered to adopt ggos on the basis of the efsa opinion. the european approval procedure for gmos is particularly strict. the efsa risk assessment plays a crucial role in this. the n-va strongly believes in a scientifically sound and evidence-based policy. biotechnology is also an important sector for innovation, research and development. flanders, and ghent in particular, is also at the forefront of such research. the objections signal that europe wants to put a brake on this investigation, which i believe is wrong and harmful. it is of course still important to distinguish between gmo technology and application. it is also clear that the (possible) use of gmos must always be within an agricultural policy that integrates the protection of human health, the environment and biodiversity, with integrated pest management being essential for the sustainable use of pesticides and non-chemical alternatives.
in writing. at the beginning of 2016, there were about 7.4 billion people on the planet. in the most conservative scenario, the world's population will have grown to 9 billion by 2050. rapid growth in the world's population implies that demand for food and crops will increase proportionately. agricultural and food business operators face major challenges. the existing agricultural area will have to be better and more carefully considered. innovation in agriculture will focus on sustainable and efficient farming techniques and plant technology will play a special role in ensuring food production. in this context, there are also no convincing scientific arguments to oppose a gm authorisation at present.
in writing. ‒ meps have given a highly political signal this afternoon by rejecting, by a large majority, five new authorisations for the cultivation of gmo maize 1507, bt11, mon810 and gm cotton 281-24-236. eighteen months after the entry into force (2 april 2015) of the legislation giving a new possibility for member states to ban the cultivation of gmos on their territory, for which i was the rapporteur, nothing has changed. the commission is trying to push through in the absence of both scientific and political consensus. this is in flagrant contradiction to the commitments made by president juncker in july 2014 to change the authorisation procedure for gmos at european level. the european parliament rightly reminds the commission that it must respect its word. even if the cultivation of mon810, which is the only gmo grown in europe, mainly in spain and since 1998, represents less than 0.10% of the agricultural area, this is a matter of principle. any decision authorising the marketing of gmos should be suspended until democratic control of commission decisions has been strengthened and they reflect the majority opinion of member states and citizens.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with which i fully agree on this matter, considers that this draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the risk analysis of these crops by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. we therefore reject this request!
in writing. – i voted against this motion for a resolution. it is very important that europe can ensure its own food supply. at the same time, this needs to be done in an efficient and sustainable manner. science helps us in achieving this goal. it is important that those products that are developed in this regard are safe for both consumers and the environment. such an assessment, research and consequent conclusions need to be based on scientific processes and empirical evidence. it is efsa's task and responsibility to ensure that this is the case. this is the reason why it was established by the institutions of the european union. in this case, efsa has, upon request of the european commission, duly assessed this gmo and concluded that it is safe. in my view, efsa is the appropriate authority to give recommendations on these matters and likewise the commission is the relevant authority to act on those. therefore i have voted against this proposal that would go against efsa's judgement.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with which i fully agree on this matter, considers that this draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the risk analysis of these crops by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. we therefore reject this request.
in writing. at the beginning of 2016, there were about 7.4 billion people on the planet. in the most conservative scenario, the world's population will have grown to 9 billion by 2050. rapid growth in the world's population implies that demand for food and crops will increase proportionately. agricultural and food business operators face major challenges. the existing agricultural area will have to be better and more carefully considered. innovation in agriculture will focus on sustainable and efficient farming techniques and plant technology will play a special role in ensuring food production. in this context, there are also no convincing scientific arguments to oppose a gm authorisation at present.
in writing. ‒ meps have sent a highly political signal this afternoon by rejecting, by a large majority of 375 votes to 193, the authorisation to place genetically modified maize 1507 on the market for cultivation. this maize expresses the cry1f protein, which confers resistance against corn pyrales and certain other lepidoptera parasites, and the pat protein, which confers tolerance to the herbicide glufosinate, classified as toxic to reproduction. meps also expressed concern about the risk of contamination with conventional crops and theosinte, the ancestor of cultivated maize. these are the reasons why the cultivation of gm maize 1507 is banned in 21 european countries and regions: wallonia (belgium), bulgaria, denmark, germany, greece, france, croatia, italy, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, luxembourg, hungary, malta, the netherlands, austria, poland, slovenia, northern ireland, scotland and wales. in practice, this majority cannot win the decision. the authorisation procedure for gmos at european level must therefore be reviewed, as the commission's president-designate, jean-claude juncker, committed to do before the european parliament in july 2014. we're still waiting for it.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with which i fully agree on this matter, considers that this draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the risk analysis of these crops by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. we therefore reject this request!
in writing. – i voted against this motion for a resolution. it is very important that europe can ensure its own food supply. at the same time, this needs to be done in an efficient and sustainable manner. science helps us in achieving this goal. it is important that those products that are developed in this regard are safe for both consumers and the environment. such an assessment, research and consequent conclusions need to be based on scientific processes and empirical evidence. it is efsa's task and responsibility to ensure that this is the case. this is the reason why it was established by the institutions of the european union. in this case, efsa has, at the request of the european commission, duly assessed this gmo and concluded that it is safe. in my view, efsa is the appropriate authority to give recommendations on these matters and likewise the commission is the relevant authority to act on them. i therefore voted against this proposal that would go against efsa's judgement.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with which i fully agree on this matter, considers that this draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the risk analysis of these crops by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. we therefore reject this request.
in writing. at the beginning of 2016, there were about 7.4 billion people on the planet. in the most conservative scenario, the world's population will have grown to 9 billion by 2050. rapid growth in the world's population implies that demand for food and crops will increase proportionately. agricultural and food business operators face major challenges. the existing agricultural area will have to be better and more carefully considered. innovation in agriculture will focus on sustainable and efficient farming techniques and plant technology will play a special role in ensuring food production. in this context, there are also no convincing scientific arguments to oppose a gm authorisation at present.
in writing. ‒ like 45 other meps, i abstained on the renewal of the mon810 gmo maize. i naturally share the concerns expressed by the majority of the plenary about the shortcomings of the current procedure for the authorisation of gmos at eu level. this is also why i supported the three other objections to the authorisation of the cultivation of new gmos (two maize and one cotton) without any real scientific evaluation of so-called 'packaged' gmos containing several transgenes. but mon810 maize is an exception. only gmos have been grown in europe since 1998, representing less than 0.10% of the agricultural area, and i felt that it was not necessary for the european parliament to send such a negative message about a technique that is imperfect but whose negative impact on health has never been demonstrated. however, there are real concerns about the lack of concrete measures taken by spain, where most of the gm maize is grown, in relation to protection distances, buffer zones or mandatory information for authorities or neighbouring farms. a national issue first and foremost.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with which i fully agree on this matter, considers that this draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the risk analysis of these crops by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. we therefore reject this request!
in writing. – i voted against this motion for a resolution. it is very important that europe can ensure its own food supply. at the same time, this needs to be done in an efficient and sustainable manner. science helps us in achieving this goal. it is important that those products that are developed in this regard are safe for both consumers and the environment. such an assessment, research and consequent conclusions need to be based on scientific processes and empirical evidence. it is efsa's task and responsibility to ensure that this is the case. this is the reason why it was established by the institutions of the european union. in this case, efsa has, at the request of the european commission, duly assessed this gmo and concluded that it is safe. in my view, efsa is the appropriate authority to give recommendations on these matters and likewise the commission is the relevant authority to act on them. therefore i have voted against this proposal that would go against efsa's judgement.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with which i fully agree on this matter, considers that this draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the risk analysis of these crops by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. we therefore reject this request!
in writing. at the beginning of 2016, there were about 7.4 billion people on the planet. in the most conservative scenario, the world's population will have grown to 9 billion by 2050. rapid growth in the world's population implies that demand for food and crops will increase proportionately. agricultural and food business operators face major challenges. the existing agricultural area will have to be better and more carefully considered. innovation in agriculture will focus on sustainable and efficient farming techniques and plant technology will play a special role in ensuring food production. in this context, there are also no convincing scientific arguments to oppose a gm authorisation at present.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with which i fully agree on this matter, considers that this draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the risk analysis of these crops by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. we therefore reject this request!
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with which i fully agree on this matter, considers that this draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the risk analysis of these crops by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. we therefore reject this request!
in writing. at the beginning of 2016, there were about 7.4 billion people on the planet. in the most conservative scenario, the world's population will have grown to 9 billion by 2050. rapid growth in the world's population implies that demand for food and crops will increase proportionately. agricultural and food business operators face major challenges. the existing agricultural area will have to be better and more carefully considered. innovation in agriculture will focus on sustainable and efficient farming techniques and plant technology will play a special role in ensuring food production. in this context, there are also no convincing scientific arguments to oppose a gm authorisation at present.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament, with which i fully agree on this matter, considers that this draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in directive 2001/18/ec. the risk analysis of these crops by efsa is incomplete and the risk management recommendations made by the commission are inadequate. furthermore, the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law. we therefore reject this request!
in writing. – i voted against this motion for a resolution. it is very important that europe can ensure its own food supply. at the same time, this needs to be done in an efficient and sustainable manner. science helps us in achieving this goal. it is important that products developed in this regard are safe for both consumers and the environment. such an assessment, research and consequent conclusions need to be based on scientific processes and empiric evidence. it is the task and the responsibility of the european food safety agency (efsa) to ensure that this is the case: that is why the agency was established by the institutions of the european union. in this case, efsa has, at the request of the commission, duly assessed this product and concluded that it is safe. in my view, efsa is the appropriate authority to give recommendations on these matters and likewise is the commission the relevant authority to act on those. therefore i voted against this proposal which would go against efsa’s judgment.
mr president, i am a belgian and a french speaker, but i am not going to talk to you about ceta. i would therefore like to support this request. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have plenty of time to debate the change from wintertime to summertime in the morning. so it's not that we're running out of time. i would also remind you that this assembly is sovereign in the organization of its agenda which it adopts in accordance with rule 152 (1). i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
mr president, we are under no obligation to fill in the agenda for thursday afternoon. in our view, there is no legal obligation on parliament. parliament is sovereign in the organisation of its work.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am of course pleased that the agreement on the iranian nuclear programme seems to be being respected. of course, i recognize that this agreement opens up new possibilities and will bring benefits to both sides by opening up the iranian market to european companies. of course, i want to open our borders to young iranians. but, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, just because the iranian regime has ceased to be a nuclear criminal, we must not give it a democratic and humanist award of honour. i believe that openness to trade and to new forms of economic cooperation, which i support, must go hand in hand with real progress in the field of human rights. i would remind you that iran is now the world champion in all categories in terms of the number of executions in relation to the number of inhabitants. i would remind you that iran executes minors, in violation of the un convention on the rights of the child, which it has signed and which prohibits the use of the death penalty against juvenile offenders. i would remind you that the iranian regime does not recognize the holocaust. i remind you that in iran, all women are second-class citizens. finally, i would remind you that the present minister of justice publicly expressed pride in having taken part in the decision to execute thousands of political prisoners in 1988. personally, i would describe these mass executions as crimes against humanity. so, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation with iran is a yes, but turning a blind eye is a no!
fellas, i'll tell you right now. i do not intend to give my fiat to a report like this which, in the hands of a theocratic regime in iran, could be used and would be used as a propaganda tool. we have been negotiating the nuclear deal for years, and in the meantime we have seen a dramatic increase in the number of executions in iran. according to the united nations, about 1,000 people were hanged last year alone. that's the highest number of executions per capita in the world. iran also holds the record for executions of minors. indeed, under pressure from the severe sanctions of the european union, iran was forced to curtail its nuclear ambitions and to accept the nuclear agreement, which is necessary. but let's not be naive. this does not mean that we are suddenly faced with a more moderate regime. the daily reality proves otherwise. - an example? the same officials who executed 30,000 political prisoners in 1988, committing one of the gravest crimes against humanity, are still in high positions in the current regime. one of them is the current minister of justice. he even recently declared that he was proud of the part he played in the massacre! we also see the destructive role of iran in the conflicts in the region. iran provides the funds, the weapons and the militiamen for its proxy wars in syria, iraq, yemen, lebanon and elsewhere. if iran is to finally be a responsible state with which we can do business, it must first of all stop this kind of rogue behaviour.
madam president, this is not exactly a point of order. i have just had a speech by my colleague, mr mon, without any translation into french. i don't know if it's a problem with the spanish or the french booth, but i'd like to understand and hear the rest of our debate.
madam president, commissioner, i have of course heard our rapporteur, mr howitt, and i thank him for this work, the complexity and scale of which are well measured here. but it seems to me that relations between the european union and iran have been normalized since the vienna agreement. the report's 51 paragraphs are full of optimism, which often seems to me excessive and sometimes even angelic. yes, the country is opening up. it is reopening, i would say, to trade, cooperation, even tourism, but i am not forgetting its battery side. the islamic republic, whatever its president rouhani says, remains - and this is the fact reported by all the ngos present on the ground - a totalitarian theocracy that knows nothing of human rights. paragraph 41 is explicit in this respect: iran has the most executions per capita in the world. it is also, as has been said here, the last country to put juvenile offenders to death, which is a flagrant violation of international law and our fundamental values in europe, as are the denial of justice, the fate of women, the institutionalized denial of the holocaust, the call for the destruction of israel - not a word here - and the piloting in beirut of hezbollah, the terrorist organization that plays a leading role in syria alongside the damascus regime. for all these reasons i shall not be able to vote on this report tomorrow if the series of amendments which i tabled with my group and a number of others which i have heard today are not accepted.
if the historically acquired existence of western democracies on our european continent was originally an incentive to cooperate and to strive for democracy in what were then communist dictatorships, that cooperation has now degenerated completely. whereas the member states should each be the source of rule of law and democracy from below, they are now placed under the refined bureaucratic curatorship of the european union and the concepts that were the foundation and richness of european cooperation are now the standardized rules of big brother in the european union's version, a so-called panel of experts at the head of an eu inquisition system. the original wealth of human rights and democracy is now being weaponized in your eu dictatorship. there's no way i can be a part of that.
in writing. i have of course approved this own-initiative report which proposes the creation of an annual mechanism to monitor the respect for fundamental freedoms and the rule of law by the member states and the institutions of the union. to this end, the report invites the commission to present, by september 2017, a draft interinstitutional pact on the rule of law and fundamental freedoms which would include: an annual report on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights including country-specific recommendations, an annual interparliamentary debate on the basis of this report, and modalities for dealing with potential risks or violations as provided for in article 7. the fundamental values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty are at the heart of the european project. each member state must respect them. the current situation in poland and hungary shows that there is a need for continuous monitoring of compliance with these values and the application of this report would make this possible and therefore enable rapid responses to be made. this is a vital issue for the future of europe.
the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and it is therefore asking the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further aggravated by the threat of terrorism. terrorism often follows from crime, but community and identity also play a significant role. the terrorist abdeslam, for example, fled to brussels after the paris attacks and promptly took refuge with a family: with a father, mother and son in molenbeek. so i asked myself how these communities could be lifted out of the marginalization. since 2005, the eu has systematically supported member states in their efforts to counter violent extremism. the 2015 security agenda builds on this, following which the commission launched seven new priorities in mid-2016. it announced a toolkit to better detect and combat extremism and to keep our society open, free and inclusive. it is important that victims and disillusioned terrorists are included. these are good measures, but the best way to achieve a cohesive society is nevertheless activation and participation in the form of language training and guidance in finding a job. compulsory naturalization is also an absolute key to the fight against terrorism. in brussels, for example, integration is still not compulsory. this is thanks to our french-speaking colleagues in the ps. as if europe could solve everything with a magic wand!
mr president, commissioner, welcome to the house and good work, because you will not miss the work. the first task is the necessary, even imperative, interoperability between the databases we have created. god knows if we've created one! without interoperability, it's a waste of money. secondly, commissioner, you have acknowledged that the member states must respect their commitments. it is a scandal that there is only one member state which has a fully operational pnr system, and the paradox is that it is your country, commissioner, which has just decided to leave the union. thirdly, while parliament proposed a mandatory exchange of pnr data, the member states preferred to exchange only the data they deemed relevant. if data on terrorism is not relevant to security, what data is? fourth point, mr commissioner: given the number of terrorists who are citizens of the union, it is necessary to strengthen checks at the external borders of the european union. these checks are all the more necessary in view of the sharp increase in the use of false identity cards. in this connection, commissioner, i look forward to a commission proposal, and i hope you will take it up, to harmonize the security features of european identity cards. fifthly, i have been informed that the commission will very soon be proposing a revision of the regulation on the schengen information system. this will be a crucial opportunity to improve the accuracy of reporting on terrorism suspects.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which proposes that denmark may participate in the exchange of dna data under the prüm convention.
in writing. in the fight against terrorism, the exchange of information is a necessity. i therefore wholeheartedly welcome the adoption of this dossier which aims to establish the automatic data exchange with regard to dna data with denmark. since data protection safeguards are sufficient, states must now cooperate more closely. information available in one member state may sometimes be a key element in the investigation taking place in another member state. such an agreement today with denmark can therefore only be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for dna data in denmark. in the context of the fight against terrorism, such an exchange is essential. as denmark has fully implemented directive 2008/615/jha which contains the requirements to be met in particular with regard to data protection, we can be sure that these exchanges will respect all the european rules in force.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my distinguished colleague claude moraes' text on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for dna data in denmark.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which proposes that denmark may participate in the exchange of fingerprints under the prüm convention
in writing. in the fight against terrorism, the exchange of information is a priority. i therefore wholeheartedly welcome the adoption of this dossier which aims to establish the automatic exchange of data with regard to dactyloscopic data with denmark. this is data related to a person's fingerprints. since data protection safeguards are sufficient, states must now cooperate more closely. information available in one member state may sometimes be a key element in the investigation taking place in another member state. such an agreement today with denmark can therefore only be welcomed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft resolution concerning the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data in denmark. this provision fully meets the objective of enhancing cross-border cooperation to combat terrorism and cross-border crime contained in directive 2008/615/jha.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange for dactyloscopic data in denmark, following the recommendations of my colleague claude moraes.
in writing. ‒ the commission had drawn up a proposal for the council on 15 december 2015, which was adopted on 26 january 2016. the negotiations began on 21 september this year and a decision is expected on 3 november. this is a visa-free stay in china for all eu citizens holding an eu diplomatic passport or laissez-passer, as well as for chinese citizens holding a valid diplomatic passport and wishing to travel on european soil. the maximum duration of the visa-free stay is 90 days within a 180-day period. i support this proposal because the abolition of the visa requirement will facilitate direct personal contacts, which is an essential condition for the continuous development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which provides for a visa-free travel regime of up to 90 days in any 180-day period for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or an eu passport and for chinese nationals holding a valid diplomatic passport travelling to the territory of the other contracting party.
in writing. i welcome the approval by the european parliament of the eu-china agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. this is a further step in the eu-china dialogue on mobility issues. more generally, this visa-free agreement should strengthen the existing links between the two parties. as the union and china share a wide range of issues and themes of mutual interest, it is essential to deepen our partnership and maintain a continuous dialogue with china.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by which the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. this agreement provides for a visa-free travel regime of up to 90 days in any 180-day period for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or a union laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party.
in writing. - i voted for the text. the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports will represent a step towards the achievement of full and reciprocal visa waiver for holders of conventional passports. visa facilitation is a development of considerable importance, as it brings tangible benefits. the abolition of the visa requirement will reduce the waiting time at consulates and the costs associated with travel. it will facilitate contacts between peoples, which is essential for the steady development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links, and will intensify contacts between peoples. of course, visa facilitation must go hand in hand with progress in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as required by article 1 of council regulation (ec) no 539/2001.
in writing. ‒ the eu commission should, under the umbrella regulation, review before 30 june 2016 inter alia the so-called 'surcharge' introduced in 2010 for the member states with the most serious budgetary difficulties. this means that those member states which are implementing adjustment programmes or have had to implement one since 2007 will receive, on request, additional payments of 10% on all expenditure declared and will continue to receive payments 10% above the maximum co-financing rate during the implementation of the programme. this allows eu payments to be made earlier than the original financing plan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ until 30 june 2016, member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties and having received financial assistance could apply for an increase of 10 percentage points above the co-financing rate normally applicable under the european structural and investment funds (esi funds: erdf, esf, cohesion fund, eafrd and emff). in order to ensure that member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties can continue to implement programmes under the esi funds, the european parliament proposes in particular to cover the period up to 30 june of the year following the calendar year in which the member state ceases to receive financial assistance, thus allowing the eligibility period to be extended up to a maximum of 18 months. in view of the difficulties europe is facing in recovering from the consequences of the financial and economic crisis of 2007 and the need to make the european union a project more focused on solidarity between member states, i voted in favour of this text.
in writing. in order to cope with the economic and financial crisis, ems have had to adopt austerity measures. however, countries with budgetary difficulties (greece and cyprus) also have difficulties in finding the resources needed to ensure national co-financing of regional policy projects that provide assistance to the real economy. in order not to undermine the proper functioning of the european structural and investment funds, the common provisions regulation authorises the commission to make additional payments by increasing them by 10% above the co-financing rate applicable to the european funds (erdf, esf, cohesion fund, eafrd, eafrd), without changing the overall allocation of the esi funds. it provides for an increase in the co-financing rate for cyprus from 50% of the erdf and the esf to 85% for the period 2014-2020. by raising co-financing rates, we are helping these countries in particular to make investments that are conducive to recovery and job creation. i support this report which is intended to help greece and cyprus, which are currently in a liquidity crisis, and beyond that any member state which might find itself in the same situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the regulation amending council regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 concerning certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. the rapporteur stresses that this is a precise and budget-neutral solution to the temporary liquidity problems faced by greece and cyprus.
in writing. ‒ the economic and financial crisis put pressure on national economies, and member states adopted austerity measures to balance their budgets. in this context, it is important to ensure the smooth implementation of the union's main financial instrument, the european structural and investment funds (esi funds). with national budgets under pressure, it can be difficult for countries with budgetary difficulties to find sufficient resources for national co-financing of regional policy projects. the proposed legislative changes will be likely to result in a temporary increase in payment appropriations, which would be offset by reduced payments towards the end of the 2014-2020 programmes. there should be no change in the annual ceilings of the multiannual financial framework established for commitments and payments.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-marie le pen, submitted by the prosecutor general to the paris court of appeal for incitement to racial hatred.
in writing. two requests for the lifting of jean-marie le pen's parliamentary immunity by the prosecutor general at the paris court of appeal were made in connection with two proceedings pending before the investigating judges of the paris court of first instance for incitement to racial hatred. jean-marie le pen has indeed engaged in anti-semitic attacks in a video recording published on the internet on 6 june 2014. considering that the alleged offence giving rise to the prosecution does not concern an opinion or a vote by the member in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, and considering also that there is no suspicion of fumus persecutionis, i have decided to vote in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of jean-marie le pen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr jean-marie le pen's immunity, so that the french judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, on the understanding that the incriminating facts (nauseating proposals inciting racial hatred in a video) have no direct link with mr le pen's function as mep. freedom of expression does not allow for the utterance of defamatory statements, which damage the honour. moreover, the request for waiver of immunity is not motivated by any desire to impede the parliamentary work of the person concerned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of this member of parliament so that he can explain himself before the courts of his country.
in writing. i voted for the report of the committee on legal affairs which proposes not to defend the privileges and immunities of mrs collins.
in writing. ms collins is the subject of a civil action before the high court in london for defamation and slander. since she has made defamatory statements outside the european parliament and since these are not part of her activities as an mep or european policies, i have decided to vote in favour of lifting her parliamentary immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of mrs jane collins so that the british judiciary can carry out its work in strict respect of the rights of the defence, on the understanding that the statements in question (ms collins is suspected of defamation and slander) have no direct link with mrs collins's office as an mep, since the statements were made at a congress of her national party, and are not motivated by any intention to cause harm.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of this member of parliament so that he can explain himself before the courts of his country.
in writing. i voted for the report of the committee on legal affairs which proposes not to defend the privileges and immunities of mr borghezio.
in writing. mr mario borghezio was accused of having disseminated ideas based on racial or ethnic superiority and hatred during a radio broadcast, a behaviour which is punishable by italian law no 205/1993. it was in this context that mr mario borghezio lodged an application for the defence of his parliamentary immunity on 5 january 2016. in accordance with article 8 of protocol no 7, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes expressed in the performance of their duties. however, mario borghezio was asked to comment on the appointment and powers of a new member of the italian government, statements that have no direct and obvious link with his parliamentary activities. infringing on the integrity of a person is incompatible with our european humanist and democratic values and is also contrary to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. that is why i have decided to vote for the waiver of mr mario borghezio's immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr mario borghezio's immunity so that the italian judiciary can carry out its work in strict respect of the rights of the defence, on the understanding that the facts under indictment (alleged discriminatory statements made during a radio interview) have no direct link with mr borghezio's function as an mep and are not motivated by any intention to cause harm. it is essential to remember that the right to freedom of expression does not allow for everything; and under no circumstances to make defamatory statements based on racial hatred.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of the immunity of this member of parliament so that he can explain himself before the courts of his country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative proposal, which aims in particular to extend the scope of the regulation on rail transport statistics to cover infrastructure data, in particular the deployment of the european rail traffic management system (ertms), which was one of the priorities of the trans-european transport network (ten-t), as it is extremely important to have a clear vision of the development of ertms in the european union. the union has spent millions of euros to finance this type of infrastructure without any concrete results to date, as the system is not operational in europe due to irregularities and delays in deployment. the european parliament also decided that eurostat should publish data on stations accessible to persons with reduced mobility and disabled persons, as well as on the use of cross-border railway infrastructure. after negotiations between parliament and the council, it was also decided to strengthen cooperation between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency in order to avoid overlapping of their activities.
in writing. the european parliament's priority is to ensure the fullest possible access of the union's stakeholders and our citizens to statistical data on the union's policies. the commission therefore decided to extend the scope of the regulation on rail transport statistics, amending regulation (ec) no 91/2003 to cover data on more fields such as infrastructure, passengers and rail transport accidents. considers it essential that all citizens and stakeholders involved, from near and far, in the rail transport sector have the right to know, for example, the current state of the deployment of the european rail traffic management system, a project that the european union has so generously funded. they are also entitled to consult railway accident records or to find out about the facilities available for people with reduced mobility in each european station. this is to ensure that, in the long term, there is a clear vision of the existing infrastructure and policies in the railway sector in the union. this is why i am in favour of extending the regulation on rail transport statistics.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment of the regulation on rail transport statistics, as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents. this data collection is particularly important in order to enable the commission to prepare and monitor union action in the field of transport safety. reliable and high-quality data are crucial for the adoption of the most appropriate policies in this regard.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. after lengthy negotiations, the council and the european parliament agreed that the most effective and least costly way to avoid duplication of activities between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency was to strengthen cooperation between those institutions and to ensure that statistical data related to union policies are easily accessible to union citizens and stakeholders. agreement on the simplification of the regulation on rail transport statistics was only possible after the signing of two memoranda of understanding, one between eurostat and the commission (on 27 april 2016) and the other between eurostat and the european railway agency (on 12 may 2016). these memoranda of understanding are not only important instruments to optimise the use of existing information and reduce the administrative burden, but also respond to the need raised by the co-legislators to make better use of rail transport statistics. this will provide all categories of users with easily accessible data and reliable information on the evolution of european policies in the railway sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text, which aims to extend the scope of statistics on inland waterway transport to passenger transport, not just freight, and to define and frame the commission's powers with regard to the adoption of delegated acts in this field. i agree with my colleagues in the committee on transport and tourism that if our policy of strengthening the role of inland waterway transport in the transport sector is to be effective, it must be based on reliable statistics for both freight and passenger transport.
in writing. this resolution amends regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 on inland waterway statistics by extending the data from the inland waterway sector not only to freight but also to passenger transport. inland waterway transport would thus be placed on an equal footing with maritime, air and road transport, sectors in which statistics are collected for both goods and passengers. we believe that full efficiency in the inland waterway sector can only be achieved if it is based on reliable statistics for both freight and passenger transport. we also wanted to limit the powers of the commission to adopt delegated acts under the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendment to the regulation on statistics of goods transport by inland waterway, which concerns the conferral of delegated powers and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures. the purpose of this amendment is to align the regulation with the treaty on the functioning of the european union as regards the conferral of delegated powers and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures.
in writing. - i voted for this text. parliament and the council agreed to take account of passenger transport by inland waterway in the framework of the regulation. they defined the first steps towards the integration of passenger transport statistics into the regulation. first, the commission, in cooperation with the member states, will develop a methodology for the compilation of statistics on passenger transport by inland waterway. the commission will then launch pilot studies on a voluntary basis to assess the feasibility of this new data collection. finally, the commission will present the results of these studies to parliament and the council and will consider making a proposal for the revision of the regulation. those pilot projects should be financed from the union budget. parliament and the council agreed to limit the powers of the commission with regard to the adoption of delegated acts. delegated acts should only be adopted in order to adapt the regulation to changes in the codes and nomenclature at international level and to increase the thresholds. the duration of the delegation was limited to five years.
in writing. ‒ in the current state of the european customs union, 'passing through customs' is more or less expensive in terms of the risks involved, depending on the member state, as the penalties applied by eu states can range from a simple fine to a prison sentence. in view of the urgency of harmonising customs sanctions at european level, in particular to avoid the risk of 'dumping' and to ensure that the sanctions imposed are dissuasive, effective and proportionate, i have decided to vote in favour of this report, which seeks to amend the commission's proposal in this area. in particular, it is proposed to define as precisely as possible the list of offences, their classification as major or minor offences, and the criminal or non-criminal sanctions applicable depending on the nature and gravity of the offence. my colleagues felt that this directive should also cover the obligations of the member states towards the european union's trading partners, as well as towards the world trade organisation and the world customs organisation, with a view to establishing a homogeneous and efficient internal market while facilitating trade and ensuring security.
in writing. while the customs union is the basis of the european construction and the internal market, it is regrettable that there is no integrated approach to the implementation of the legislation in this area. therefore, although customs legislation is the same everywhere, the penalties applicable in the event of infringement may differ from one member state to another. it goes without saying that importers will choose the member state which is most favourable to them, thus creating market distortions. this customs dumping, which is detrimental to the eu's financial interests, is in breach of the spirit of the treaty. that is why i am in favour of the directive on the union legal framework for customs offences and the penalties applicable to them. the main objective is to harmonise the systems of sanctions and thus improve the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. - i voted for the kallas report. the customs union and trade policy are the exclusive competence of the european union. the european union is therefore the only body that can develop a common approach to the application of customs legislation. member states have committed themselves to two specific objectives: to ensure that customs administrations interact and carry out their tasks as effectively as if they were a single administration, in order to ensure controls with equivalent results, and to support legal economic activities, but also to ensure the necessary protection of the financial interests of the union. however, it is quite clear that without an integrated approach to enforcement, including through sanctions, it is not possible for the customs administrations of the member states to act as if they were a single administration, in particular in view of the significant differences in the sanction systems of the member states. these differences create a lack of mutual trust between administrations, whereas trust and cooperation between customs authorities are essential for the good administration of the customs union and the protection of the financial interests of the european union.
in writing. ‒ although the n-va is committed to the principle of a more uniform framework for the punishment of similar infringements of customs legislation in the eu, the delegation cannot agree with the practical implementation of this framework as required by this report. the nva delegation considers this a missed opportunity. many questions and uncertainties remain, for example as to the scope of the directive and its legal basis. the n-va appreciates the efforts made by the rapporteur of the committee on internal market and consumer protection (imco) in the european parliament, including the effort to come up with a minimum system of sanctions. nevertheless, the n-va cannot agree with the commission proposal which forms the basis of the imco document. it therefore feels obliged to vote against this document.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this budgetary adjustment which proposes to increase the budget for the security of the european schools, the european parliament, the commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service by a total of eur 15.8 million.
in writing. ‒ the third adjustment of the 2016 budget provides for eur 15.8 million to improve the security of the european institutions. of this, eur 3.5 million is earmarked for the european schools, eur 5 million for the european commission and eur 0.2 million for the european parliament. the european parliament will have 35 armed security officers who can provide armed assistance from three strategically selected positions in the building. the additional 35 new security officers represent about 5% of the total staff of the ep's dg safe. the n-va meps agree to the reinforcement of the buildings of the european institutions so that in an emergency the security services can intervene armed. the n-va also remains in favour of implementing the 5% reduction in staff in all european institutions, in line with the commitments made in the 2013-2020 multiannual financial framework.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amending budget to ensure the security of the european institutions and their staff. in the light of the recent attacks, we have had to review our security and human resources needs. in this context, 35 additional permanent posts will be created for the recruitment of new security officers in the ep. this adjustment of €15.8 million is amply justified as it is not only to protect the european institutions located in belgium and france, but also the european schools and all the staff working within these institutions.
in writing. ‒ i supported draft amending budget no 3/2016 because the recent terrorist attacks have prompted the eu institutions to review their security needs. the budget proposes, in particular, the recruitment of 35 security officers to the european parliament. additional security measures are needed to adapt to a new reality. the european parliament is a very visited place and it is essential that those who work or spend time there are safe. this is also true of other institutions such as the european schools, the commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service, for which this text calls for additional resources to be allocated to security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague gérard deprez's report after having had a long discussion with him this morning. this report concerns the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: security of the institutions.
in writing. ‒ the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) is a good step towards mutual diplomacy, and both sides are now responsible for the successful implementation of the action plan. any external relationship that promotes stability and thus security should be supported. that is why i am voting for this action plan.
in writing. ‒ i approved this report, which first recalls that the council's decision to lift all nuclear-related sanctions against iran allowed contacts with that country to be resumed. the report stresses that the future development of relations between the eu and iran should go hand in hand with the implementation of the nuclear agreement. it called for the respect of the eu's human rights guidelines and, in particular, for an immediate moratorium on the use of the death penalty in iran. the report also calls on iran to take measures to fight corruption and to respect the fatf recommendations on issues such as disrupting financial flows to terrorist organisations.
in writing. ‒ i could not vote in favour of the report on the european union's strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement, because it was completely unbalanced. of course, we must welcome the nuclear agreement, which is a great success of multilateral diplomacy, and european diplomacy in particular. of course, this agreement will bring benefits to both sides, offering european companies the prospect of re-entering the iranian market. but just because the iranian regime has ceased to be a nuclear criminal does not mean that we should give it a democratic and humanist award. iran is now the world champion in terms of the number of executions in relation to its population. under president rouhani, more than 2700 prisoners were executed. iran executes children in violation of the un convention on the rights of the child, to which it is a signatory and which prohibits the use of the death penalty against juvenile offenders. and i cannot understand how members of the european parliament could vote against an amendment denouncing it. cooperation with iran, yes, but turning a blind eye, no!
the nuclear agreement with iran was a major turning point in the country's relations with the rest of the world. iran was, after all, on the verge of a nuclear race. thanks to sustained diplomatic pressure and economic sanctions, iran eventually abandoned its nuclear plans. the lifting of sanctions and the restoration of relations between iran and the west open up opportunities in the interests of both parties. but a healthy democracy is not the fruit of the success of an efficient economy alone. building trust with iran involves more than just picking up economic relations. more trade between the eu and iran does not mean that we can turn a blind eye to the lack of democracy, to the egregious violations of human rights and to the fact that the region is still plagued by death and destruction every day. the authors of this report have not used the opportunity to send out stronger signals on respect for human rights, the abolition of the death penalty, hostile statements against israel and the need to make constructive efforts to promote stability in the region. all this has not been done sufficiently and that is why i have not approved this report.
in writing. ‒ meps adopted this afternoon, by 456 votes to 174, with 67 abstentions, a resolution which i strongly oppose, which aims to define the european strategy towards iran after the nuclear agreement. the agreement, which entered into force on 16 january 2016 after 12 years of negotiations between iran, the european union and the five permanent members of the un security council, lifted sanctions imposed on iran by the major powers in return for a curtailment of its long-term nuclear programme. despite the adoption of some of the amendments i co-signed, in particular on the situation of human rights and political prisoners in iran, the continued denial of the shoah and the state of israel by the iranian authorities, and their support for the terrorist organisation hezbollah, the european parliament's resolution remains unbalanced in tone and substance. it is a blank cheque to iran and it is regrettable that the economic prospects promised by the lifting of sanctions take precedence over the political and geopolitical realities of the region. it is feared that such an attitude will contribute to the european union's isolation on the international scene.
in writing. ‒ i supported the howitt report which encourages the european union to make new efforts in its relations with iran. the security of the whole of the middle east is becoming ever more urgent, and this certainly also requires the encouraging agreement reached on the iranian nuclear programme. the internationally verifiable universal nuclear test ban treaty is the best way to ban nuclear tests and any further nuclear explosions and cooperation between the eu and iran will ensure the full implementation of the joint comprehensive plan of action.
in writing. - i support the howitt report. the joint comprehensive plan of action, also known as the iran nuclear deal, is a notable achievement of multilateral diplomacy and european diplomacy in particular, as it should not only allow for a significant improvement in eu-iran relations but also promote stability throughout the region. it considers that all parties are now responsible for its strict and full implementation. i welcome the establishment of the joint committee composed of representatives of iran and the e3/eu+3 (china, france, germany, russian federation, united kingdom and united states, with the vp/hr). i fully support the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy in her role as coordinator of the joint committee established under the joint comprehensive plan of action, the strict and full implementation of which is of paramount importance. i have nevertheless tabled amendments to bring human rights and gender equality issues to the fore!
in writing. – i voted against the resolution because the approach towards iran is not realistic considering the remaining challenges in iran and there is no mention of the situation in syria. the overall resolution is too positive and lacks a balance on iran’s role in the region. there is too strong an emphasis on trade, disregarding human rights. it calls for cooperation between universities without mentioning the lack of academic freedom and is too vague with regard to juvenile executions. however, i am in favour of a dialogue concerning human rights and i support the immediate release of all political prisoners and others unjustly detained. i agree with open dialogues for nuclear safety and on energy diversification. i agree with condemning the fuelling of conflicts and the support of armed groups by iran.
in writing. ‒ i have of course endorsed this own-initiative report which calls for a genuine european plan against organised crime, fraud and corruption. the commission is asked to draw up blacklists of companies with links to organised crime and engaged in corruption. they could no longer operate in conjunction with the public authorities. the report also stresses the need for effective tools to freeze the assets of criminal groups and reuse them for social purposes. the commission is invited to draw up a proposal for the mutual recognition of decisions on the confiscation of assets.
in writing. as in the fight against terrorism, it is essential to strengthen our capacity to combat organised crime effectively, especially as the two are intrinsically linked. in october 2013, the european parliament made a series of recommendations on the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering. today, much remains to be done. meps are still waiting for a real european action plan with ambitious means. concrete action is still needed. for example, europol must set up a special unit to combat organised crime groups active in several sectors as soon as possible. member states must, as in the fight against terrorism, increase the exchange of data at their disposal. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. finally, parliament reiterated the need to set up an ambitious european public prosecutor's office which will ultimately have to fight crossborder crime. this is a strong commitment as we negotiate with the council to ensure the independence and effectiveness of the future european public prosecutor's office.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this report, the european parliament is calling for new rules to combat organised crime and corruption. i am particularly pleased that this resolution was adopted by a very large majority. although the resolution is non-binding, the broad support it has received will oblige the european commission in particular to take it very seriously. among the ideas raised in this text, i would particularly note the european parliament's new request to be able to launch a legislative initiative to protect whistleblowers. it is urgent that the european union should be able to provide itself with the necessary legislative arsenal to protect these citizens.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation in the european parliament welcomes any proposal that contributes to the development of a security culture. although this report contains some good points, we note above all a number of problems. our main concern is the chapter on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office (eppo). we are always against this, not least because it would be the third agency of its kind, and would result in the waste of taxpayers' money. it is also unclear at present what the competence of this agency would be. the resolution also extends the powers of the fight against fraud to organised crime. this is an infringement of the sovereignty of the member states which have competence in this area. the n-va considered these elements to be sufficiently important to abstain from voting on this proposal.
in writing. - i voted for the text. it should be stressed that the current cycle of eu policy-making in the fight against organised crime should give greater weight to the fight against the crime of association, and not only to the crime for which an association has been set up. we believe, in particular, that it is necessary to provide for the possibility of punishing an association of criminals irrespective of the crimes committed. it should be recalled that the fight against money laundering, corruption and trafficking in human beings should also be one of the priorities of this political cycle, as part of a genuine european strategy to combat corruption.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because it stresses the necessity of a common and coordinated response by the eu and its member states to this issue. this is very important since criminal organisations have changed their modus operandi, availing themselves of the support of professionals and so demonstrating a high degree of adaptability. as a liberal, i believe in the pure values and strengths of a clean democracy, so i stand against corruption at any level.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this own-initiative report which recalls that the majority of migrants worldwide are hosted by developing countries. it firstly stresses to states their international obligations in the field of migration and the abolition of punitive legal frameworks that penalize migration. it recalls the particular vulnerability of certain migrant groups such as unaccompanied women and girls, migrant children, the elderly, disabled people and lgbti migrants. the report stresses the need for the eu to strengthen its policies for peace and stability in regions where war and conflict are causing huge migration flows. it also stressed the usefulness of resettlement programmes and thus the importance of development aid. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism.
in writing. the right to leave one's country is enshrined in article 13 of the universal declaration of human rights. the internal and external aspects of migration policy are closely linked. if europe is to assume its responsibilities, the countries of origin must assume theirs. it is about meeting the common security and development challenges together. there will be no development without lasting peace and security, just as there will be no social, human and economic development without prosperity. it is not enough to resettle refugees or to meet their basic needs. there is a greater need to launch actions in countries of origin to build resilience, improve stability and encourage development. let us not forget that 1% of growth in africa brings in more than all official development assistance. it is clear that trade, when accompanied by national policies and trade aid, is a growth engine. as regards the emergency trust fund for africa, which was initially allocated eur 1.8 billion by the commission, it is urgent that member states and other donors fulfil their commitments to double these amounts.
in writing. ‒ the syrian conflict reminds us every day that in addition to the civil war, there is an unprecedented humanitarian crisis with some 7.6 million internally displaced people and 4.2 million refugees in neighbouring countries. that is to say, if the world is facing the reality of migration today, since according to the un, almost 244 million people are considered international migrants. they are victims of conflict, persecution, violations of human rights and, more generally, of all kinds of poverty. a complex problem which concerns the european union as a host country, but also and above all third countries, the subject of the vergiat report which i supported with a majority of members of the european parliament this afternoon. beyond the resolution's finding that it is difficult to distinguish between refugees, asylum seekers and migrants, the text specifies what should be done and still has not been done. this concerns, as a matter of priority, the opening of safe and legal pathways for migration as a means of preventing trafficking in human beings, and the particular attention that the union should pay to the rights of migrants in the context of country-specific human rights strategies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on human rights and migration to third countries because it is a key issue. despite the fact that it contains several repetitions and is not arranged in the most relevant way, it precisely points out the urgency of establishing legal migration routes and draws attention to the need for the european union to respect the rights of migrants and to include this issue in its external policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for my colleague's proposal, although i regret some compromises made with an unconstructive epp. parliament expressed its solidarity with those who are forced to leave their country because of conflict, persecution, human rights violations and poverty, among other factors. it also expressed its deep concern at the serious violations of human rights suffered by many migrants in many countries of transit and destination. finally, we should stress that special attention must be paid to the dignity and human rights of migrants.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution, since in the liberal view, human rights and a well-managed migration process, are fundamental for the progression of society as a whole. changes in migration flows, especially in times of crisis, have far-reaching economic, social, and political repercussions for migrants’ countries of origin and for their countries of destination, so it is really important to focus on this issue. this is one of the priorities of the eu and our union will show again the great values of which it is made of. i agree with the resolution since it calls on states to recognise their obligations under international law with regard to asylum and migration and to enact national laws for the effective implementation of those obligations.
in writing. ‒ i have of course approved this report which calls on the union and the member states to define precise rules clearly stating that companies established in their territory and/or under their jurisdiction are obliged to respect human rights in their activities, including outside the union. the report suggests that, in order to raise awareness among producers and consumers, a voluntary eu-wide identification label should be established to ensure respect for human rights. the label would be accompanied by an independent monitoring body with inspection powers whose role would be to verify and certify that no infringements have been committed at the various stages of the manufacturing chain of the products concerned.
in writing. i have approved this report because it is in line with the substance of the previous initiatives i have taken in parliament on the need to establish mandatory due diligence requirements and a regulatory framework for the extraction and supply chains of so-called conflict minerals and minerals from risk areas. this report makes recommendations for the effective implementation of corporate social responsibility in a globalising economy, and thus meets my ambition to prevent and prevent human rights violations by companies in an effective and coherent manner. in this context, progress should be made in the work towards a binding un convention on business and human rights. it is also recommended that the eu, its member states and other countries should have enforceable trade rules for international companies in the event of human rights violations. companies that conduct all their business activities in accordance with the principles of corporate social responsibility today not only gain in social benefits but also strengthen the trust of their customers and consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries because globalisation and the increasing internationalisation of business activities and supply chains increase the role of companies in ensuring respect for human rights. european (and other) companies and member states must jointly ensure that human rights are respected in third countries. in this context, the resolution calls for the adoption of binding instruments to protect these rights.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament will vote this afternoon on its proposal for clear european rules to require companies established in eu member states or under their jurisdiction abroad to respect human rights in all their global activities. we also offer a label certifying that human rights are respected in third countries during the manufacture of a product. the aim is clearly to promote the own enterprises, as opposed to the still too many enterprises which are unscrupulous about the working conditions of their workers throughout the world.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution, since i want these rules to become binding and enforceable towards corporations, and since eu technologies are still causing human rights violations. the eu is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. i strongly believe in these values and as a liberal, i believe that everyone should be treated fairly, also in the working environment. i agree that a global holistic approach to corporate liability for human rights abuses is still lacking.
in writing. ‒ the full integration of liquefied natural gas and gas storage will make a major contribution to the goal of a crisis-proof energy union in the future. for this purpose, priority should be given to market-based solutions and the use of existing lng infrastructure. in particular, a careful analysis of the alternatives and options for the supply of lng at regional level should be preferred to a decision on new infrastructure. this would make more efficient use of the existing infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which first recalls that the eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage is an element of the energy union. it calls for better use of existing liquefied natural gas and gas storage capacities, increased cooperation to build new facilities and stronger support for less connected regions to diversify sources of supply.
in writing. the eu has the ambition to become a world leader in sustainable energy use in the long term. it will do so in stages, including by developing a shock-resistant energy union that includes liquefied gas and gas storage. an eu strategy for liquefied gas and its storage is also vital to reduce our energy dependence on foreign suppliers. that way we can guarantee that the customer can still pay the bill. but natural gas remains a fossil fuel, and its use contributes to the warming of our climate. that is why i have, with some colleagues, proposed a number of amendments to this report which place the energy challenge in the wider environmental context. in those amendments we emphasize that the eu's energy policy must be in line with the paris environmental agreements. the ambition is to limit global warming to 1.5°c. by focusing on reducing demand, optimising energy efficiency and phasing out the use of fossil fuels, including gas, we are strengthening europe's climate and energy goals.
in writing. ‒ let us say it straight away: it is regrettable that the european union uses only 20% of its liquefied natural gas (lng) import capacity. diversifying your sources of supply is always a winning choice in the long run. there are certainly objective reasons for this situation, such as the uneven distribution of the locations of methane terminals on european territory. this should not prevent the union from having a genuine strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage. this is a political choice which must be made if the eu is to be more competitive and less dependent in the future, especially on russian gas. the gyürk report adopted this afternoon also underlines the importance for the union of initiating this rapid transition to a sustainable energy system. but this race to lng must not be carried out without caution or control. we all know that natural gas is a fossil fuel which can emit large quantities of methane which is harmful to the ozone layer. this is one reason, if any, to place the energy union strategy within the broader framework of the paris agreement climate goals, with a focus on reducing demand and improving energy efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for liquefied natural gas, which makes a number of recommendations to this effect. i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate my position on shale gas. as a government, i am strongly opposed to the extraction of this gas because of the harmful effects on the environment and citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for an eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and gas storage. i have nevertheless voted against the paragraphs and amendments which promote the extraction and import of shale gas.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation abstained from voting on the gyürk report. the delegation is convinced that lng will play a crucial role in the european energy union in the coming years. firstly, to ensure energy security. lng allows us to diversify our energy suppliers and is a good alternative to other conventional energy sources for less accessible regions. secondly, the delegation wishes to emphasise the importance of lng and gas for the transition to a low-carbon society. gas and lng, when used properly, have significant environmental benefits compared to more polluting conventional sources such as coal. unfortunately, the text is contrary to the agreements reached in the council on the 2030 objectives. by setting the bar unrealistically high, parliament shows how little it is aware of the current economic, global and social reality. in addition, the nord stream 2 project is being re-examined, although it has already been made very clear that it does not violate european rules. it's just a commercial agreement between several private companies.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the creation of an energy union and the integration of an energy policy. i support the reduction of gas dependency and the cutting of co2 emissions. moreover there have to be binding climate and energy targets and ukraine should become more independent from russian gas, possibly through switching to lng. investments for lng infrastructures should be private and there should be a full implementation of the third energy package. i agree with the eu’s more active engagement in energy diplomacy. gas is a really important resource and widely used in the region. that’s why a common plan and discussion are really important.
in writing. ‒ there is a need to harmonise fisheries controls to ensure sustainable management of living marine resources and a level playing field among eu fleets. this report was prepared in preparation for the forthcoming control regulation and calls on the member states to ensure the effective implementation of the control regulation. i voted for this report because cooperation between local, regional and national authorities and eu agencies is important to make controls more effective. the lack of interoperability between the data collected at national level is still a barrier to harmonising control capabilities. in future, data exchange should take place in real time and in consultation with the efca and member states. to this end, the mandate of the efca should also be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i supported this own-initiative report which sets out ways to improve fisheries controls in europe. it calls for training of controllers at european level and a single control reference standard. it also stressed the importance of harmonising sanctions.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this resolution on the harmonisation of fisheries controls across europe. inspection procedures too often suffer from differences which can lead to discrimination in their implementation by the member states. parliament therefore called for greater harmonisation of national control methods. it proposes, in particular, to harmonise penalties for infringements (including the criminal or administrative nature of such penalties) and to introduce uniform training for fisheries inspectors at european level. these recommendations of the european parliament should be taken fully into account in order to avoid any feeling of discrimination against certain fishermen.
in writing. ‒ how can fisheries controls be made more uniform across europe? this is a very important question to which the european parliament tried to give an answer this afternoon by approving the thomas report. the current situation is not satisfactory insofar as there is real or perceived inequality among fishermen in terms of factors as varied as the regularity, rigor, duration, intensity, effectiveness and methods of fisheries controls in europe. among the obstacles to effective controls, the text pointed out that some member states organised checks from machine to plate and others only on certain links in the chain, excluding for example the transport or catering part. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing gear. the european parliament is also realistic and calls, above all, for the full implementation of regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 on fisheries control. the commission also stressed the need for greater flexibility in the application of the landing obligation, which represents a radical change for fishermen.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution, which proposes several ways of making fisheries controls more homogeneous. the text, which is part of the revision of the fisheries control regulation, proposes, for example, to harmonise the scope of application of existing community legislation and sanctions or to set up genuine european training for fisheries controllers. these recommendations are in the right direction: to establish true equality between all european fishermen.
in writing. - i agree with my colleague isabelle thomas on this matter. fishermen often complain that fisheries controls are much stricter in their own country than in their neighbours, whether in another member state or in another fishery. fishermen also say that they are the most regulated profession in the world. this feeling of injustice raises a real question: that of the homogeneity of the application of the regulation and, therefore, of its effectiveness. for if it is possible to suspect that the rules are not applied with the same rigor, it is to be feared that we will reach a situation where the rule is no longer respected because it is not the same for everyone. the aim is twofold: to identify the shortcomings in the application of the rules that lead to this sense of inequality and to propose solutions to improve the harmonisation of control of the common fisheries policy, one of the most integrated policies in europe.
in writing. ‒ transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe has been substantially improved and modernised through eu support. however, there is still room for improvement in cross-border north-south links between these member states. as improvements in transport infrastructure always require large investments, it is essential that the member states of central and eastern europe and the commission continue to intensify full coordination at all levels of transport policy and project planning. it is also essential to exploit all the synergies between the european structural and investment funds (esi funds), the connecting europe facility, the european investment bank (eib) and the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) in financing. the same applies to the timely use of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) funds that are made available for the near future. i welcome this report as it can help to tackle certain problems which are encountered in the development of the various modes of transport by land, sea and air in the central and eastern regions of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses the need to improve the networking and accessibility of transport infrastructure from, to or within the central and eastern regions of the union, taking into account the needs of the economy and the principles of sustainable development. it recalled the objectives of the trans-european transport network (ten-t) which are to establish missing links, remove bottlenecks and ensure seamless connections for regional and long-distance transport, particularly in cross-border regions, for passenger and freight traffic.
in writing. strengthening the networking and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe is essential for the new member states. interconnection would improve integration between the north and south of europe to develop economic growth and employment. moving towards more transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe means a clear improvement in the well-being of the population and the development of smes. however, i do not think that priority should be given to the creation of a new corridor directly linking the venice harbour platform to north-eastern europe. i also do not consider the completion of the italian a27 motorway to austria to be a priority. however, i remain convinced of the need to focus our efforts on building the missing links, removing bottlenecks and establishing seamless connections. this is how we will be able to achieve the ten-t objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on strengthening the network and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. it is indeed important to enable european citizens to have a quality infrastructure to move around europe. among the recommendations in this report i would highlight the need for coordinated project planning by and between member states and for better use of regional cooperation instruments.
in writing. ‒ for the european parliament, this is the right time to continue the momentum of this new ten-t process and to further address the existing challenges in accessibility and transport infrastructure networking in the central and eastern european member states by bringing together estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, croatia, romania and bulgaria. the report may provide answers to certain questions relating to the development of different modes of transport by land, water or air in the central and eastern european states, in particular support for intermodality via hubs and ports or the need to re-establish cross-border rail links for passenger transport.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the european parliament makes recommendations to the commission with the aim of establishing a legally binding mechanism with annual reporting on member states' compliance with eu values and fundamental rights. the mechanism should contain objective guidelines and set out a clear and gradual procedure for the correction of breaches of fundamental rights or the rule of law. the european parliament's proposal also aims to consolidate similar existing requirements into a single eu instrument. i support the establishment of a mechanism at european level, because the mechanism can also be an effective instrument for monitoring countries that wish to join the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have of course approved this own-initiative report which proposes the creation of an annual mechanism to monitor the respect of fundamental freedoms and the rule of law by the member states and the institutions of the union. to this end, the report invites the commission to present, by september 2017, a draft interinstitutional pact on the rule of law and fundamental freedoms which would include:- an annual report on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights including country-specific recommendations,- an annual interparliamentary debate on the basis of this report,- arrangements for dealing with potential risks or violations as provided for in article 7. the fundamental values enshrined in article 2 of the treaty are at the heart of the european project. each member state must respect them. the current situation in poland and hungary shows that there is a need for continuous monitoring of compliance with these values and the application of this report would make this possible and therefore enable rapid responses to be made. this is a vital issue for the future of europe.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this report on a mechanism for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. the european parliament has voted to formally invite the commission to submit a proposal for the creation of such a mechanism by september 2017. this initiative makes perfect sense in view of the divergences in some member states and the obvious weakness of the various mechanisms already in place. i have always said that the union has a duty to monitor the respect by its member states for fundamental rights and the values of democracy and the rule of law enshrined in our treaties. such a mechanism has the merit of institutionalising continuous and objective monitoring of compliance with our values and would therefore make it possible to systematically identify any shortcomings or deviations as soon as they appear. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must now respond to the expectations that have been expressed and finally launch the long-awaited project of the union of our rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the in t veld report which calls on the european commission to put in place a binding mechanism to assess annually the failures of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms in the european union, as it is imperative to adopt a framework that allows the union to combat not only infringements of specific european legislative provisions, but also serious threats to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the values to which the member states subscribe by joining the eu must be respected in all respects. too many deviations in the conduct of the police. the attacks on democracy, on ngos, on the independence of the press and on the judiciary are simply unacceptable. to minimize them would be detrimental to the humanist vision and the european values i intend to defend in this parliament.
in writing. ‒ the eu must address all breaches of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, including those occurring in the member states without a strict link to eu secondary law. however, recent events in hungary, poland and some other member states show that there are gaps in european legislation. there is currently no instrument that meets parliament's legitimate demand for the existing procedures to be applied on a permanent basis to all member states. the report therefore proposes a system of permanent monitoring of the situation in the member states, with a prominent role for independent experts. this panel of experts will be set up under the control of the commission and will present a report each year analysing the situation in all member states. the report must then be approved by the commission, after which the council and parliament will debate it. the commission shall then decide whether the infringement procedure should be initiated. the system proposed in this report is a suitable starting point for good negotiations with the commission and the council of ministers. it is a first step in the right direction and that is why i support the report.
in writing. ‒ this alde own-initiative report aims to create an eu mechanism for the protection of human rights in the form of an interinstitutional agreement. the n-va, while agreeing with the principle of such rigorous monitoring, abstained from voting. this mechanism has no basis in the treaties and cannot be found in technical interinstitutional cooperation agreements. we would point out, among other things, article 7 teu, in particular as regards the council's exclusive competence in this area, which is not taken into account in the resolution. the way in which this mechanism is framed in this resolution leads, in short, to a serious undermining of the sovereign decision-making powers of the member states and constitutes an unjustified extension of parliament's powers.
in writing. ‒ europe has a long tradition of democracy, the rule of law and citizens' rights. these concepts, which originated with athenian democracy, are found in roman law, the magna carta of 1215, the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen of 1789, the european convention on human rights and, finally, the charter of fundamental rights. moreover, the european union enshrines them among its essential principles and objectives, set out in the first articles of the treaties, and in the criteria for accession to the union. while attempts to include a reference to europe's judeo-christian roots in the treaties have been unsuccessful, they nevertheless affirm that the union is perceived as a community of shared values. in its external actions, the union puts human rights and democratic governance at the forefront, and migrants arriving in europe are asked to respect and embrace our common values.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i agree that the commission has to present by june 2017 a new draft agreement for the accession of the union to the echr. i support the recommendation for treaty changes. the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, enshrined in its core principles and objectives. these are all values that, as a liberal, i defend and support. i also agree with the fact that union citizens and residents are not always sufficiently aware of all their rights as europeans, and this resolution aims to make those also more transparent and clear.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, our two colleagues jan olbrycht and isabelle thomas, on the quality of their work. like my colleagues, i also welcome the commission's decision to propose a genuine revision of the multiannual financial framework. in doing so, the commission is at least partially relaxing the really tight corset of the current multiannual financial framework, which was negotiated at a time before the major challenges, notably migration and security, facing the union today. the commission's proposals are, of course, somewhat below the expectations of the european parliament, as expressed in the resolution adopted on 6 july this year and reflected in the resolution we shall be voting on tomorrow. i am thinking in particular of the absence of any reference to the raising of the ceilings, a demand which is central to the proposal of both our colleagues and which we support. commissioner, you mentioned more flexibility. i hope you are right, but i am not sure that will be enough. i am glad to note that the commission proposal provides for more appropriations for investment, an extension of the fund for strategic investments, an extension of the youth employment initiative and a much-needed crisis reserve. finally, i would like to support the strategy defined by both our colleagues and supported by the committee on budgets, which is to link the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework to the negotiation of the 2017 budget. mr schulz has just written to mr tusk and mr fico about this. we must win the case. the absence of the council today is unfortunately already a poor indicator of this will.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate our two fellow rapporteurs, mr geier and mr tarand. that said, i would like to explain briefly why the alde group will strongly support the draft budget of the european union for 2017. we believe that the draft budget submitted to us offers significant budgetary improvements to meet the major challenges facing the european union, which are all necessary objectives. there is a need to boost growth and investment, in particular by strengthening support for horizon 2020, the connecting europe facility and the cosme programme, which is strategic for smes. it is necessary to support milk producers, who are victims of the fall in prices and the russian embargo. it is necessary to send a positive message to european youth by strongly supporting the extension of the youth employment initiative and increasing the resources of erasmus+. the migration crisis must be dealt with effectively and humanely. we therefore strongly support the strengthening of the amif fund and the creation of the instrument to provide emergency humanitarian aid within the union itself. there is a need to ensure better control of the external borders of the union. that is why we support the strengthening of the european border and coast guard agency. more action is needed to address the root causes of migration flows and to stabilise the peripheral regions affected by violent convulsions in a lasting way. finally, we need to be more vigilant in preventing and countering terrorist threats. that is why we support the strengthening of the resources allocated to the internal security fund. we also ask for the human and material resources made available to europol to be increased. i personally think that if we are to increase its effectiveness to the maximum, no less than 90 additional people should be able to be engaged during the course of this year.
a budget is a summary of political choices. when i look at this budget, i see that 2.7 percent is spent on security and citizenship and 6.2 percent on europe and the world. together, that's not 9%. less than 9% of the total european budget goes to topics that should be the priorities of today and tomorrow! how do we deal with the security crisis? how do we ensure that we get the migration crisis under control? how do we ensure that people know and feel protected again in this european union? i note that very few european coins go to that, at any rate not enough. i would therefore call on this parliament to concentrate more on the priorities that are really important and that can really make a difference. unfortunately, i find that often, or at least sometimes, the will and the strength to choose change are lacking here.
in writing. over 62 000 people have signed the petition eu: don't invest in weapons against subsidies for a european military research programme, the so-called preparatory action on defence research. the european greens will indeed vote against money for this programme tomorrow in the vote on the 2017 budget. the projects to be funded are not known. who will receive the property rights is also unknown. these crucial decisions will not be taken until the european parliament has given its fiat. moreover, subsidies to the arms industry do not lead to greater security. european member states accounted for 28% of all arms exports in the world in 2014-2015, according to sipri figures. these weapons are fuelling bloody conflicts in countries like yemen and syria and creating global insecurity. i therefore call on my colleagues to vote against this programme of subsidies for the arms industry and therefore in favour of amendments nos 974 and 975 to item 02 04 77 03.
mr president, this new european semester is opening up in a special atmosphere. will we have a free trade agreement with canada? we're wondering about that. we know wallonia is blocking and wondering. what economic development do we want for the european union? this is exactly the question we ask ourselves every six months, often unfortunately in the dark, as the economic creed seems unshakable in its certainties and as it consolidates a european economy at the service of multinationals under the sacred dogma of austerity. in belgium we have felt the consequences of this way of thinking and acting. caterpillar has eliminated thousands of jobs in charleroi in one day to boost its profits, which are very comfortable. same way with ing. the dutch banker has cut thousands of jobs in belgium to pay his shareholders even better. in the meantime, what has been done for the citizens of europe? public services are being reduced day by day, there is a lack of productive public investment throughout europe, and i am not saying this, but, for example, matteo renzi. in italy, since 2008, public investment has fallen by 43%, and that's a problem. in france, local authorities invest as much as in 2006, a decline of ten years; and in belgium, we see the same phenomenon. it is therefore more than urgent to revive productive public investment, which benefits first and foremost the citizens, but also and above all the economy. my colleague sant said it: we must review, as more and more actors are demanding, the accounting standards of the sec 2010, which prevent public authorities from investing. an ambitious investment programme based on innovation and real needs such as energy transition, mobility, employment, health or education and, finally, a harmonised taxation system in europe to combat tax evasion. that's how we're going to get through this.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that the commission has finally revived the project of a common and consolidated corporate tax base. this project has been on hold for over five years, although it is probably the best way to ensure that corporate profits are paid in the countries where they are made. we are particularly pleased that, in line with the wishes of this parliament since 2012, the commission has planned to make this system compulsory for the largest companies. i hope that the commission will use all its energy to bring this whole matter to a conclusion as soon as possible, including the mechanism for the objective allocation of profits between the member states. this is a crucial step in the tax harmonization of the european union. however, we have reason to be concerned, because it seems that within our union, ladies and gentlemen, there is a sort of hierarchy of priorities. the commission and the council are unwavering in their determination to move as quickly as possible when it comes to concluding free trade agreements, even if it means using intimidation to bring in countries that are a little too resistant. but when it comes to fighting tax evasion, the pressure suddenly, as if by a miracle, drops by at least ten points. the forced walking that is the rule in trade agreements suddenly gives way to a kind of voluntary hiking. wallonia is now under maximum pressure because it is opposing the signing of a trade treaty tailored to the interests of multinational companies, but it is now almost five years since ireland, malta, cyprus and the united kingdom have blocked the project we are discussing tonight without any pressure. it is as if, when a blockade serves the interests of multinationals, we are kept low profile, whereas, when a blockade is against the interests of multinationals, all means are permitted to lift it. i think it is high time that we reversed that hierarchy.
answer is "blue cardboard". ladies and gentlemen, i believe that when a state decides to base its competitiveness on the argument of fiscal competition alone, it risks, in the end, losing on all fronts. this cannot be the selling point to attract multinationals. i am convinced, however, that if we need to harmonize rates, the solution cannot be the same for everyone. in other words, some countries which are disadvantaged by geography, such as ireland or cyprus, should be able to compensate, even partially, for this geographical disadvantage by a tax advantage. however, this must be done in concert between the member states.
madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate you and welcome this new initiative which will make it possible to take a further step towards this indispensable improvement of the european tax system, particularly in the fight against tax competition between member states and, consequently, against massive tax avoidance. i think this directive is crucial because in the future a multinational will be able to comply with a single system within the union for calculating its taxable profit rather than with different systems specific to each of the member states in which it operates. the ccctb provides a comprehensive solution to the current problem of corporate taxation in the european union and contributes to improving the business environment in our single market by making it simpler and cheaper for cross-border activities. above all, the ccctb is a powerful instrument for combating tax evasion by companies by removing disparities between national systems and establishing common provisions to combat tax evasion. i would add a few remarks, commissioner. that said, the commission now wants large groups to become compulsorily affiliated to the ccctb. this is a first step, but unfortunately, as my colleague pervenche berès has said, the threshold for defining the large groups is 750 million euros. we are naturally calling for it to be reduced to 40 million euros, as is the case for the banks. if this threshold is not lowered, large companies such as jeff de bruges, a well-known chocolate maker in france, would not be considered a large group, although it is well known that this company makes over 600 million in profits a year and is established all over the world. i don't think our citizens would understand. i am also a little saddened that the consolidation of the tax base is only a second step. it would have been more coherent if the two texts had been adopted separately, but we are of course counting on you to ensure that they are voted on together. finally, it is clear that we must have a european approach to taxation, as is done in other parts of the world, for example in the united states. a european fixed rate and a limited variable rate could very well be envisaged. we are counting on you, commissioner, and we hope that the council will follow you on this subject and on all the good proposals you put on the table.
first of all, i would like to thank dita for all the good work she has done on this dossier. i think that with this legislation we have succeeded in showing that europe can indeed provide added value. the two most important successes in my view are the following. firstly, it is a forward-looking proposal. we've managed to make sure that not only the websites, but the applications, the apps, are going to be more accessible. secondly, i think we have struck a good balance between accessibility on the one hand and avoiding disproportionate burdens on public authorities on the other. accessibility does indeed come at a cost. for example, it is not reasonable to ask a museum to make all its archives available online. so we've been working with a system on demand. so people who want certain information online can ask.
on behalf of the group of the european right i support the resolution before us. you are right, commissioner. scientific research has shown that excessive intake of trans fatty acids significantly increases the risk of cardiovascular disease. although the intake of trans fatty acids in the eu is generally quite low, we find a particularly high concentration in certain diets. so a thoughtful approach is required. the experience of denmark and other countries, as we have just heard, shows that a binding limit value is an effective instrument. the danish measure has a demonstrable positive effect on public health without a negative impact on the food sector. i also think that a limit value is a realistic measure. it is not a question of zero tolerance. allowing a minimum will avoid the complete exclusion of natural trans fats. finally, i would like to stress that a trans fat measure should naturally be part of an integrated approach to healthy nutrition and can be compatible with other agreements, such as voluntary agreements. i am also convinced that a constructive dialogue with the sector is essential and necessary to achieve a good result.
in writing. cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer's disease, diabetes and obesity are the risks faced by the european citizen who consumes excessive amounts of trans fatty acids in his diet. the problem is that only 30% of consumers know what a trans fatty acid (tfa) is, exposing the other two thirds of europeans to potentially serious medical problems. that is why, by voting this afternoon, we want clear labelling, but that is not enough: we must also limit the presence of these acids. the consumption of agts increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, especially coronary heart disease, which is estimated to cause some 660 000 deaths in europe each year, or 14% of all european mortality. the text we have voted today therefore supports the imposition of mandatory limits on industrially produced trans-fatty acids which are excessively present in the diet. we cannot accept that citizens put their health at risk any longer. in the absence of national legislation in many countries, europe must take the lead.
for the greens/efa group mr president, indignation, protest and rejection are what the european project is increasingly attracting from too many of our fellow citizens. some people here would like to see it as a sign of identity retreat. but this anger is first and foremost a cry for help against policies that are increasingly out of touch with the public interest. it is quite symbolic when the epicentre of the protest is in wallonia, the host country and one of the most pro-european and supportive regions of the union. all this is about a free trade agreement with canada, which was the main topic of last week's european council. this is not by chance: for three years now, free trade agreements have been the subject of a new kind of citizen mobilization in french-speaking belgium. under this pressure, the french-speaking elected representatives of belgium seized the ceta and dissected it as few in europe have done. all this led to a reasoned resolution in may 2015 on the initiative of the greens, expressing very serious reservations about a ceta designed to assert the supremacy of a chimerical right to profit over all other rights and the power of companies, their shareholders and their leaders over that of democracy. far from being the troublemaker of europe, wallonia has now become the representative of all citizens who reject a commercial policy in the service of multinationals. no, contrary to what we are led to believe, wallonia is not isolated, quite the contrary. is it necessary to recall that 1 500 european towns and cities have declared themselves outside ttip and ceta, that 3 400 000 petitioners reject the project of arbitration between investors and states, that a majority of austrians, germans, french and slovenians are opposed to ceta? the response of the commission and the european governments was a four-stroke waltz. first, there was the denial of the letter from the minister-president of wallonia expressing the reservations of his parliament. then came the condescension: "if you disagree with us, you have not understood, so we will explain it to you again". then there was the intimidation: wallonia has two days to decide, mr tusk. finally, there was the tinkering with a jumble of statements of dubious legal value which added to the confusion of opacity. the pressure exerted by the walloons to lift the block on ceta contrasts sharply with their silence in the face of the block on the part of some member states, some of which are much less populated than wallonia - let me tell you this - on, for example, the fight against tax evasion or financial regulation. even more sickening is the stark contrast in the decisions of the european council last week, mr tusk. between the frantic free trade bias and a migration policy whose key words have become refoulement and keeping at a distance. the european union's heads of state or government, for example, believe that goods, services and finance should be able to move freely, but especially not human beings. a few weeks ago, before the failed summit in bratislava, you said, mr tusk: 'european citizens want to know whether the political elites are able to take back control of events and processes that are beyond their control, confuse them and sometimes terrify them'. a few days later, in your state of the union address, mr juncker, you said you wanted a europe that protects, preserves our european way of life and empowers our citizens. take advantage of the opportunity that the french-speaking people of belgium offer the commission and the european governments. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of subsidiarity must be respected. affirm their right to decide freely which activities will be entrusted to the public service and which will be entrusted to the market; finally, you can remove all doubts about the compatibility of this treaty with european law by referring it to the court of justice of the european union. will it take time? yes, it is the time of democracy. you know, we have, for centuries, traded with canada without ceta. so what does a few more months matter? the walloon surge must be the occasion, ladies and gentlemen, not of a halt to the union's trade policy, but of its reversal, because most of our fellow citizens are not opposed to trade. in the 21st century, the objective of trade agreements cannot be to maximize flows, because that is incompatible with environmental constraints. it cannot be maximising profit for the few, because that is not the role of politics. their primary objective must be to promote the highest standards of social, environmental, health, fiscal and democratic standards. these standards set the binding framework within which trade can develop. trade policy can no longer be decided in secret. on the contrary, the terms of office must be decided in full transparency and negotiations must be conducted under the constant supervision of the elected representatives. it is only under these conditions, and i conclude, mr president, that this trade policy will regain the confidence of our citizens. the walloon no to ceta is a yes to a citizens' europe. (the president agreed to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
"blue card" question. what is it? mr lambert, you are trying to say in a very concisely manner that you are not alone in opposing ceta. but will you explain to me why 27 other countries have agreed to it? you say: we already trade with canada, so ceta is not necessary. well, i'd be delighted to invite you to haspengouw. our fruit farmers are eager for ceta because it removes trade barriers. perhaps you do not need that in wallonia, but we in flanders are determined to open up those markets and to continue what commissioner de gucht has started. mr lambert, at the end you said: this 'no' is a call to europe. then i challenge you; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, this raises a lot of questions. i shall concentrate on the first: 'why is wallonia the only institution - i say yes - to say no when the other 27 member states - and you would add flanders - say yes? " i'll give you the answer. it's very simple. in europe, two parliaments, the walloon parliament and the french-speaking parliament of belgium, have opened and read ceta. all the others either did not do it or were prevented from doing it - i am thinking of the national assembly in france. that's why governments decide to go beyond what their citizens want. (thunder rumbling)
there is much to be done on the trade agreement that europe wants to conclude with canada. everyone is ready to sign except wallonia, except paul magnette, except the ps, the socialist party. they say this agreement will make sure that multinationals will write our laws. that's not in the agreement. they say we're going to have to shake up our environmental laws. that's not in the agreement. they say we're going to have to privatize our health care, that our labor market will shrink, and so on. that's not in the agreement. that is bullshit! what i am hearing now is that the ps would seem to be about to turn its back on the issue today, to perhaps lift its veto today and perhaps give its consent anyway. to save face, the party will hide behind an additional european declaration, whereas there is nothing new in that declaration; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. and when that happens, it will be clear to everyone what kind of party the ps is: the european parliament has been a party to party politics, to its own political games, to its own selfish self, and not to european cooperation.
the vice-president has already agreed with the previous speaker. please let us take a new initiative to stop the horror in aleppo. secondly, mr vice-president: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. ceta. our european quality standards in the fields of social affairs, the environment and consumer protection must be protected. these are high standards, and they must not be undermined. we all agree on that. these guarantees are now in the text and have been clarified in the past hours and days, including today. that is why today it is time - i see you nodding, mr timmermans - to conclude an agreement. i think you can play an important part in that too, you have the confidence of the players. i would like to make a warm appeal to our friends in wales to reach an agreement here and to join the ranks in europe, and then, ladies and gentlemen, to learn from this and to ensure that we can move forward again. mr brok said it: we must prove that we can cut corners in europe and not play into the hands of our friends on the right, who often shout and tear and sometimes bash each other's brains in. a crisis like ceta is also an opportunity. let us take into account the concerns of the people, the national and regional parliaments and civil society and reach an agreement which is approved by the majority in this parliament.
mr president, yesterday we voted on the report by our colleague, mrs sophia in 't veld, on the creation of a mechanism for the rule of law in europe. you know that two weeks ago the main opposition daily was closed down in hungary. we learned yesterday, just after the debate on the in 't veld report, that this daily newspaper is being bought by the oligarch who is probably closest to viktor orbán, the prime minister of hungary. i think that this parliament would do well, if it does not want to make a fool of itself, to express its opposition to such proceedings. freedom of the press, in other words, the freedom of the press, including the opposition, is an essential element of european values. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that you are very courteous, but we can say no by a show of hands because the vote is very long today, because we know that and i promise you in return that we will raise our hands anyway.
in writing. ‒ meps from the n-va are strong supporters of spending to respond to the migration and security crisis, but note that this is not sufficiently emphasised in the 2017 budget. less than 9% of the eu budget will be spent in 2017 on measures to strengthen security and asylum policies. the nva delegation therefore also made proposals to increase the resources for europol and frontex, the european border and coast guard. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. at a time when serious efforts are being demanded of european citizens and member states, traditional political groups want to increase the eu budget by more than four billion euros in 2017. before any new expenditure is made, it would be wise to consider where savings can be made. it is high time that the eu focused on those policy areas where it has a clear added value.
in writing. ‒ on wednesday, as every year at the same time, the european parliament adopted a draft eu budget for 2017. it was in favour of an ambitious budget of €161.8 billion, with higher appropriations than the council, €4 billion for commitments and €2 billion for payments. the budget is also higher than last year, as the two crises in europe, the migration and the economic crisis, are still very much present. the impact of brexit and the artificial deficit created by the depreciation of the pound sterling will also have to be balanced. the draft 2017 budget is accompanied by a resolution on the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework (mff) which calls on the member states to reform eu finances. this political link between the annual budgetary exercise and the revision of the multiannual financial framework is in the interest of the alde group. it is important to support the commission's approach in the context of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. this would ultimately mean removing the eu's too tight budgetary corset to deal with the new security and migration challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a large number of amendments to the 2017 budget despite the council's rather lukewarm position on this budget. i cannot accept that the council is so hostile to any increase in the budget when the european union is in dire need of additional funds for its priorities such as migration, growth and employment. this is why i voted in favour of the amendment calling for €1.5 billion for the youth employment initiative and the amendment calling for an increase in commitment appropriations for agriculture of €600 million. however, i have opposed the project of internationalising the drivers and the increase in the budget to allow the various political groups to hire additional staff.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the eu for 2017. we have debated the text internally and felt that it meets the objectives set and stated a priori.
in writing. ‒ this report included several adjustments for the 2017 budget. i voted with my group against the proposal to have officials transport members of parliament. the private sector is doing this in a good and cheaper way now. i also voted against the increase in staff for the political groups. i think they have enough personnel to do the job. on the other hand, frontex and europol must have sufficient resources to deal with the migration crisis in a decent way.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses the need to strike a balance between long-term priorities and new challenges. it is therefore underlined that the 2017 budget must be consistent with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which constitute its main focus. the budget also focuses on measures to tackle the migration crisis, boost the european economy, create jobs and combat youth unemployment. i agree with the eu budget for 2017. the union must continue to have sufficient resources to meet today's political challenges and to remain capable of action.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which emphasises that the union is facing urgent emergencies and that the necessary budgetary resources should be allocated to them. this is the case, for example, in dealing with the migration situation and respecting the rights of hundreds of thousands of refugees, while substantially increasing development aid in the countries of origin. the fight against youth unemployment and economic recovery are two other urgent issues which should be taken into account in any budgetary act, given the situation of the european economy which has been hit by austerity for too long.
in writing. ‒ meps from the n-va are strong supporters of spending to respond to the migration and security crisis, but note that this is not sufficiently emphasised in the 2017 budget. less than 9% of the eu budget will be spent in 2017 on measures to strengthen security and asylum policies. the nva delegation therefore also made proposals to increase the resources for europol and frontex, the european border and coast guard. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. at a time when serious efforts are being demanded of european citizens and member states, traditional political groups want to increase the eu budget by more than four billion euros in 2017. before any new expenditure is made, it would be wise to consider where savings can be made. it is high time that the eu focused on those policy areas where it has a clear added value.
in writing. i voted for a significant increase in the appropriations in the 2017 budget to address the eu's challenges and priorities, in particular in the areas of migration (the migrant crisis and its root causes), economic growth, investment, employment (for young people) and the fight against terrorism by giving europol more financial means, etc. this means that the 2017 eu budget would amount to €160.7 billion in commitments, an increase of €4.1 billion over the commission's draft budget, and €136.7 billion in authorisations/payments, or an increase of €2.5 billion over the commission's budget. this budget, which reflects the union's need to meet its responsibilities and to act credibly, will have to be agreed during the conciliation procedure with the council by 17 november 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the proposal by my colleague indrek tarand. i have of course voted for several amendments and i do not agree with every point. i voted for the single seat. the review of the 2017 budget should also be placed in the broader context of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. we stress the need to ensure a balance between long-term priorities and new challenges, and therefore stress that the 2017 budget must be in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which represents its main direction and overall priority.
in writing. ‒ although i approved the council's position on the 2017 budget, there were a number of amendments i could not agree with, such as the institutionalisation of chauffeur services and the increase in the number of security staff in the ep. i fully supported the call for budgetary discipline, one seat for the ep (no more travelling to strasbourg every month) and a fund for the victims of terrorism.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that this budgetary line sets the right priorities, consistent with my party’s view. the budget also takes into account the russian ban and prioritises a real greening of the economy. i agree with the funding for the victims of terrorism since we have always been very sensible concerning this issue. i am in favour of budgetary discipline and i also believe that driver service internalisation will generate additional expenses.
in writing. ‒ this report highlights that the current multiannual financial framework is constantly resource-scarce and does not take due account of the new crises and priorities that have emerged in recent years, such as the migration and refugee crises, the agricultural crisis, external emergencies, internal security measures, unemployment (especially among young people), the ratification of the climate agreement, among others. the evaluation of the mff shows that more funding and resources will be needed to adequately respond to the challenges. the revision of the framework is therefore a good opportunity to respond to the budgetary difficulties. however, new policy initiatives should not be financed at the expense of existing programmes and measures, but through new resources. finally, the eu budget should be made more transparent and accessible to eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which stresses from the outset that the insufficiency of the financial means available under the multiannual financial framework (mff) is a constant source of concern for parliament. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all types of transport, including freight transport, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the carrier's use of the term 'common carrier'. europe must concentrate its resources on a recovery policy that abandons austerity, on the fight against unemployment and on taking account both internally and externally of the migration situation and respect for the rights of migrants.
in writing. ‒ the n-va meps believe that the call by the majority of the political groups for higher ceilings for the remainder of the current mff is not in line with the reforms requested of the member states. for the n-va, the effectiveness and efficiency of the different programmes under the different headings should be assessed. spending priorities should reflect a positive vision for the future and not be an update of the status quo. the conditions under which the current revision takes place are unfortunately unchanged from those under which the mff was negotiated in 2013 and the total mff commitment appropriations were reduced to 1,00% of the eu's gross national income: a stagnating economy with member states in full restructuring. the nva delegation therefore does not agree with the request to increase the expenditure ceilings and will therefore vote against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. the european union must be careful not to let a budget tell it what it cannot do. therefore, in parallel with the annual budgetary exercise, it is essential to take into account the multiannual financial framework (mff) established for the period 2014-2020. a mid-term review of the programme is therefore a sensible proposal. in this respect, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mid-term review of the mff 2014-2020. in the face of new security and migration challenges, we must call on the member states to reform eu finances. this political link between the annual budgetary exercise and the review of the mff is a challenge to the council, which will examine the two files in two different instances. the general affairs council will start examining the proposal for the revision of the mff on 15 november, while the budgetary conciliation will take place with the economic and financial affairs council on 17 and 18 november 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am deeply convinced that it is necessary to go further than the extensions of budgetary flexibility proposed in the mff (multiannual financial framework) package. this is what i had advocated as the fictitious rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on this subject. one of the major challenges facing the european union is youth employment. in this respect, i bitterly regret the commission's decision to propose only €1 billion of reinforcement until 2020 when we have already used €6 billion so far. i also deeply regret that the ceilings for several headings have not been raised.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the mid-term review of the mff. however, it should be stressed that the insufficient resources available under the multiannual financial framework are a constant source of concern for the european parliament. there is no denying the number of new crises and new priorities that have emerged in recent years, including the migrant and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security problems, the agricultural crisis, the financing of the european fund for strategic investments and the persistence of high unemployment, particularly among young people.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report, but i cannot agree with new initiatives such as the recently proposed programme 'interrail pass for europe at 18', which means that every european citizen who turns 18 will receive a free interrail pass. the european union is facing bigger problems than this. in times of migration crisis and financial and economic crisis, we can spend our money better.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that it points to the number of new crises and priorities that have emerged over the past years, notably the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security issues, the crisis in agriculture, the funding of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the persistent high level of unemployment, especially among young people. points also to the recent ratification by the eu of the agreement on climate change. i agree that the revision of the multiannual financial framework provides an opportunity to respond to the budgetary difficulties currently jeopardising the credibility of the european union. this revision highlights the need for an eu budget that is more transparent and accessible for european citizens, in order that they may regain trust in the european project.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the global trading environment (e.g. the closure of a large company or the relocation of a production site outside the eu). in this case, the request concerns 800 redundant workers who were made redundant at eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as, and provides for the provision of a total amount of € 1 131 358 for estonia. i am in favour of using the funds to help redundant workers reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text: europe must continue to uphold its values of solidarity and set up reintegration cells for those workers who have lost their jobs. this is the ninth application examined under the 2016 budget, the second on the chemical industry and the first on coking and refining; the commission has decided to mobilise a total amount of eur 1 131 358 from the egf for estonia. this is a request for 800 redundant workers, a new social drama.
in writing. i am pleased that the plenary followed the position of the committee on budgets, of which i am a member, and voted today to allocate eur 1 131 358 to finance personalised services for 800 of the 1 500 workers made redundant at eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as. the relatively low number of redundant workers covered by the measures is due to the desire to target the most vulnerable workers on the labour market and the fact that some workers (third-country nationals (63.3%)) stated that they could not participate in the actions planned by estonia. the industries concerned are active in the coking and refining sectors and unfortunately in recent years the union has lost its dominant position in global chemical sales to china. in addition, due to the fall in oil prices, estonian exports of mineral fuels decreased by 25% in the first two months of 2016 compared to the same period the previous year. unfortunately, many estonian industries are dependent on the price of oil and gas. this is again a major problem for the future of european industry.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is inevitable and goes hand in hand with the opening up of new markets, international competition, economic growth and the creation of jobs that outstrip job losses in less competitive sectors. the main need therefore is for structural reforms to enable sustainable economic growth. this requires economic adjustment combined with a social policy adapted to the needs of the member states, which, in line with the treaties, are the first and most appropriate authorities. the nva delegation in the european parliament understands the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), but is convinced that a european transfer union cannot be a remedy to tackle unemployment, nor can it replace much-needed structural reform policies. the n-va meps therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application by estonia egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals). indeed, the mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund (gf) is essential to provide additional support to workers who suffer the consequences of restructuring, as in the case of hessti energia as, nitrofert and viru keemia gruppas. this is a genuine social and solidarity added value of the union which benefits workers directly.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the text, europe must continue to uphold its values of solidarity. this is the ninth application examined under the 2016 budget, the second on the chemical industry and the first on coking and refining; the commission has decided to mobilise a total amount of eur 1 131 358 from the egf for estonia. this is a request for 800 redundant workers, a new social drama.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the european commission's intention to pay eur 1 131 358 to estonia because 1550 redundancies occurred at eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as, resulting in collective termination of employment contracts. this amount corresponds to 60% of the total cost of eur 1 885 597 for individual services, which consists of support for formal study the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the redundancies were due to cheaper imports from china and the effects of globalisation on the market.
in writing. ‒ this directive aims to introduce new accessibility rules to ensure that public sector websites and mobile applications are accessible to all. the aim of this directive is to enable people with disabilities or the elderly in particular to have access to information and services on the internet without barriers. this can be done by providing subtitles to videos, offering image enlargement programs, or creating tools that allow you to use a computer without a mouse. i welcome this proposal.
in writing. ‒ this proposal for a directive concerns the accessibility of the content of public sector bodies' websites and of websites operated by entities carrying out public tasks for all users, and in particular for disabled and elderly persons. i voted in favour of this text because it seems important that all european citizens should be able to benefit from the information they need in their interactions with public administration. in order to achieve this objective, this proposal for a directive aims to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative practices of the member states. it lays down minimum requirements for the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies while ensuring that they do not impose a disproportionate burden on those bodies. member states will also have to encourage and facilitate training programmes on the accessibility of websites and mobile applications.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which aims to make websites and applications of public administrations, hospitals, courts and other public sectors more accessible to people with disabilities and older people. these sites and applications used on mobile devices will now have to meet common accessibility standards. public services will now have to provide and regularly update a detailed, comprehensive and clear accessibility statement on the compliance of their websites and applications with these standards. a reporting mechanism should also be put in place to allow users to indicate problems and to request specific information if the content is not accessible. however, certain types of content are excluded from the scope of the directive. this is content that is not necessary in administrative procedures.
in writing. the number of websites providing e-government services (approximately 380 500 in the union) and public sector websites (over 761 000 in the union) is increasing rapidly. most member states have already adopted legislative or other measures on web accessibility. however, there are still considerable differences between these laws and measures. however, non-harmonised national approaches to web accessibility create barriers within the european internal market. this directive aims to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative practices of the member states as regards the accessibility requirements for the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies, in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. it lays down rules under which member states are to ensure that websites, irrespective of the device used to access them, and mobile applications of public sector bodies comply with accessibility requirements by making them perceptible, usable, understandable and robust. i therefore welcome this objective of harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today approved a new directive ensuring that public sector bodies' websites are always accessible to people with disabilities. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the daily struggle of the blind, the deaf, and the physically handicapped will thus soon be over. with this new directive, citizens with visual impairments will, for example, hear descriptions of images when using a screen reader, and hearing impaired people will see subtitles for audiovisual files if they access public sector bodies' websites within the union. accessibility for all citizens will now be the law of the land in europe for all government websites and applications. since the promotion of equality must not stop at the digital door, it is important to consider the next step already, namely to consider the adoption of a legislative act on the accessibility of the private sector web (online commerce, banking and insurance) for people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution on the council's position at first reading on the directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications. the directive will improve the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications for people with disabilities. this is essential as more than 80 million people in the union are affected by disability and is part of the european disability strategy 2010-2020 and article 9 of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. its forthcoming entry into force underlines europe's will to play a leading role in this area.
in writing. ‒ far too many public sector websites and mobile applications are not yet accessible to all. in europe, 15% of the total population, or 80 million disabled or elderly citizens, suffer from this condition. filing a tax return, applying for unemployment benefits, paying a bill, or enrolling a child in school becomes a grueling adventure. after the european parliament's vote this afternoon, public administrations, hospitals, courts, universities or other public sector bodies will be forced to be fully accessible on the internet or through mobile applications.
in writing. ‒ the council's position indicates that the accessibility of websites is of great importance to public authorities, as it enables them to increase their reach and fulfil their public tasks. the number of websites offering egovernment services (approximately 380 500 in the eu) and public sector websites (over 761 000 in the eu) is growing rapidly. most member states have already adopted legislation or other measures in the area of web accessibility. however, there are major differences between these laws and measures. the proposal aims to harmonise the national legislation of the member states in order to remove obstacles to the internal market. this proposal on the harmonisation of national public sector measures at eu level was supported by me.
in writing. ‒ parliament had adopted a regulation to curb the introduction and spread of plant pests such as the olive tree killer bacterium xylella fastidiosa. the new regulation, which i welcome, introduces preventive and rapid reaction mechanisms for suspect plant imports, intensifies pest control efforts in the eu and requires all member states to draw up outbreak plans.
in writing. ‒ the eu's regulatory framework for plant health aims to protect european agriculture and forestry by preventing the entry and spread of non-indigenous pests. however, the current regulatory framework suffers from some limitations in view of new challenges linked to globalised trade and climate change such as the more frequent arrival of new pests and the establishment of organisms that previously did not survive in europe. given the importance of establishing a regulatory framework capable of protecting the health of our citizens as well as our economy, i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a directive. the commission proposes to redefine the rules for determining the phytosanitary risk posed by any species, strain or biotype of pathogenic agent, animal or plant parasite harmful to plants or plant products and the measures to reduce this risk to an acceptable level. in particular, member states will have to draw up and maintain a separate plan for each priority quarantine facility likely to enter and establish itself on their territory. the text also provides for the modernisation of trade-related plant health instruments (in particular through improved traceability in the internal market).
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has given the green light to new measures to improve plant protection against diseases. the council has already reached agreement on this. the nva delegation supports this agreement. the regulation is part of a package of measures designed to strengthen health and safety standards throughout the agri-food chain. a european approach is needed here: pests and diseases do not stop at the border. a well-known example is xylella fastidiosa, a wood-eating bacterium that infects olive trees. the new rules should enable member states to take decisions more quickly, react more quickly and cooperate better. moreover, it is a balanced and proportionate agreement which avoids unnecessary administrative burdens and does not unnecessarily impede free trade.
in writing. ‒ parliament endorsed this afternoon a common position agreed with the european council to better prevent the entry of plant pests into europe and to improve the control of possible epidemics. insects, fungi, bacteria and other viruses can cause serious damage to crops and crops, a trade worth €201 billion in europe (€7.4 billion in belgium). we remember xylella fastidiosa, which devastated nearly 30,000 hectares of olive groves in the italian region of puglia in 2014. the new rules will strengthen the european plant health regime around three axes. particular attention will be paid to prevention, to assess plants at risk from third countries more rapidly and upstream. better control instruments will be put in place against the spread of parasites that have managed to reach european territory, in particular through mandatory national emergency plans. the practice of plant passports will be extended to all plants intended for sale in europe in order to enhance the traceability of movements within the internal market and the safety of consumers and producers alike.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the alde group amendment to the legislative resolution, which aimed to reject the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants, amending regulations (eu) no 228/2013, (eu) no 652/2014 and (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directives 69/464/eec, 74/647/eec, 93/85/eec, 98/57/ec, 2000/29/ec, 2006/91/ec and 2007/33/ec. given the scale of such phenomena, it was appropriate to confirm the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council. these new measures are essential because they will harmonise the existing plant passport regime and will make it possible to eradicate early outbreaks of pests more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i have of course voted in favour of the text proposed by my colleague mr mcintyre on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants, amending regulations (eu) no 228/2013, (eu) no 652/2014 and (eu) no 1143/2014 of the european parliament and of the council and repealing council directives 69/464/eec, 74/647/eec, 93/85/eec, 98/57/ec, 2000/29/ec, 2006/91/ec and 2007/33/ec.
in writing. ‒ i did not agree with the council's position because a total ban on imports is not proportionate to the risk. i believe that a system is being created which makes it too easy for member states to ban imports of virtually all plants and plant products on the basis of too weak a prior assessment. in addition, the resulting bureaucratic hassle for traders would lead to a significant increase in costs and trade disruption, and threaten eu trade in plants (worth some eur 30 billion). we must ensure that our commercial interests are not harmed by very broad precautions.
in writing. – i voted against the council position on this issue. imports of plants products and material should be analysed using a risk-based approach. there is a restriction on the import, in order to not allow import of diseases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for a review of the economic measures currently in place. in this text we recall the need for taxation at european level, and we call for sustained investment in public infrastructure. the austerity policies imposed on member states, which do not meet the expectations of some, also need to be reviewed and recalibrated.
in writing. in a common space, such as the european union, it is essential that member states coordinate their economic and budgetary policies in order to ensure a certain degree of cohesion. the annual european semester phase is essential at this level if we are to restart growth and create jobs. i would like to stress once again the need to strengthen the major european projects under way such as the banking union, the capital union and even the energy union. in any case, what is striking is the glaring lack of investment. the european union has a major role to play here, notably through the juncker plan, which must be strengthened if the european economy is to boost. but we also need to look for other alternatives that complement it in order to create a dynamic framework that allows investors to feed the european economy. as regards the budgetary positions of the member states, i would once again call on the commission to ensure a certain flexibility in order to allow member states to invest in both tangible and intangible assets if such expenditure guarantees greater growth.
in writing. ‒ supported by 423 meps to 210, with 48 abstentions, the resolution voted this afternoon sets out the eu's economic priorities for 2017. innovation, growth and job creation are at the heart of parliament's concerns. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. the energy, transport, telecommunications and digital sectors are particularly highlighted. meps also called for the tax burden on labour to be reduced so as not to discourage returns to work - favouring environmental taxes. this vote marks the start of the european semester, an annual consultation process to coordinate the budgetary, economic and employment policies of eu countries. the ball is now in the court of the member states, which must develop national action programmes to implement these european guidelines. the commission will then address individual recommendations to each country on this basis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft european parliament resolution on the implementation of the 2016 priorities of the european semester for economic policy coordination. this resolution advocates the overall need for the european union to generate growth, create quality jobs, fight youth unemployment or invest in education and training. the resolution also stresses that without sustainable investment and structural reforms, monetary policy alone will not be able to stimulate growth.
in writing. - i voted yes. i am also concerned that economic growth in the union will be lower than the european economic forecast for spring 2016, given that euro area gdp is expected to increase by only 1,6% to reach 1,8% in 2017. the challenges facing the union are linked to the deteriorating international environment, the lack of implementation of sustainable reforms and the divergence in economic and social outcomes in different parts of the union. we must not forget the need to stimulate growth, cohesion, productivity and competitiveness. we cannot deny the absence of sustainable investment and the shortcomings in the completion of the internal market which are depriving the union of its full growth potential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i am concerned that the eu economy will grow less than expected on the basis of the european economic spring 2016 forecast, as gdp in the euro area is expected to increase by only 1.6% to reach 1.8% in 2017. the long economic crisis in europe has made it clear that there is a great need for investment in, for example, education, innovation and research and development, and that the eu's competitiveness needs to be enhanced through sustainable structural reforms. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. ‒ the resolution aims, among other things, to introduce binding limits for industrial trans-fatty acids (tfa) in food. tfs increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer's disease, diabetes and obesity, and are mainly contained in industrially produced partially cured vegetable oils. i am in favour of the introduction of such a limit. in denmark, the introduction in 2003 of an industrial tfs cap limiting the tfs content in oils and fats to 2% has significantly reduced the number of deaths due to cardiovascular disease.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which stresses the need to reduce trans fatty acids (tfa) in food and therefore considers it necessary to take ad hoc measures both at european and national level. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to introduce a new system of labelling for foodstuffs containing egt, which would be more effective in reducing the consumption of egt in the eu.
in writing. ‒ people who eat foods high in industrial trans fats are three times more likely to die from cardiovascular disease. moreover, the current, separate approach in the different member states leads to complex regulations for european companies. in addition to reducing the amount of trans fatty acids, there is also a need for greater awareness of the risks. in belgium we have had these trans fats under control for several years, but the import of foodstuffs has not solved the problem. they are also more common in cheaper food, making them more likely to affect certain groups of the population. the european commission must now come up with binding limit values within two years.
in writing. it would be good to eliminate trans fats from our diet. trans fatty acids do not contribute to a better nutritional value or a higher quality of the diet. on the contrary, the consumption of trans fats in the diet is a huge risk to our health, and trans fats have been shown to increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, alzheimer's disease, diabetes and obesity. consumers are barely aware of the health risks of trans fatty acids. it seems plausible that labelling, even mandatory labelling, could lead to a change in consumer behaviour. however, in my view, this does not guarantee a reduction in consumption and hence in health risks. the resolution also calls for better information to be given to consumers about the risks through other channels and for maximum standards to be imposed on food manufacturers for the use of these harmful fats. in denmark, a maximum standard of 2% is applied for trans fatty acids. the positive health effects of this have now been clearly demonstrated. in the us, trans fats will be banned from foods in 2018. so if we want to do a service to public health and preserve the export opportunities for quality food to the usa, we would do well to limit the use of trans fats in food.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution this afternoon by an overwhelming majority of 586 votes to 19 to limit trans fats in the diet as much as possible. these added industrial fatty acids are bad for our health, raising bad cholesterol and putting us at greater risk of developing cardiovascular disease, diabetes, obesity and so on. agts are found in large quantities in products as varied as snacks, ice cream, pastries, frozen pizzas and margarines. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. these, according to the doctors, are not a problem. it is hoped that the commission will soon make a proposal based on today's vote to limit the presence of agt in oils and fats to 2%. the european union would thus translate across the 28 member states the ambitious policies put in place in denmark in 2003 and in three other member states since then, which have reduced the number of deaths caused by cardiovascular diseases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on industrially produced trans fatty acids (tfa) calling for community action to reduce their general consumption. the european union has adopted a new food law on the labelling of foodstuffs containing agt.
in writing. ‒ trans fatty acids are a type of unsaturated fatty acids which, unlike unsaturated fats, are not good for health. they occur naturally in ruminants, whose gut bacteria naturally harden these fats. it is mainly the industrially produced, partially cured vegetable oils that have a negative effect on cardiovascular diseases. trans fats are mainly found in baking and braising fats, frying oils and hard margarines, and are found in pastries, cakes and snacks. every year, 660,000 people die of heart disease or vascular disease, which is 14% of all deaths. in a report of december 2015, which follows on from regulation 1169/2011, the european commission shows awareness of the problem, considers different options to limit the use of trans fats and points out the consequences of this ban, but does not make a legislative proposal. the resolution i co-approved today reiterates the call for a serious reduction in industrial trans fats for all sections of the population. although the christian democrats are satisfied with the clearer labelling of these trans fats on foodstuffs, the resolution clearly advocates the limitation of industrial trans fats. studies show that cutting down on trans fats leads to health gains very quickly.
in writing. ‒ cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer's disease, diabetes and obesity are the risks faced by the european citizen if he consumes excessive amounts of trans fatty acids in his diet. the problem is that only 30% of consumers know what a trans fatty acid (tfa) is, exposing the other two thirds of europeans to potentially serious medical problems. that is why, by voting this afternoon, we want clear labelling. but this is not enough: the presence of these acids must also be limited. in the text voted today, we therefore support the imposition of mandatory limits on industrially produced trans fats which are excessively present in the diet. we cannot accept that citizens put their health at risk any longer. the lack of national legislation in many countries means that europe must take the lead.
in writing. ‒ trans fats are unsaturated fatty acids that are not good for health. it is mainly the industrially produced trans fats that have a negative effect on cardiovascular diseases. trans fats are mainly found in baking and braising fats, frying oils and hard margarines, and are found in pastries, cakes and snacks. the resolution we adopted reiterates the call for a serious reduction in industrial trans fats for all sections of the population.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that mandatory labelling of tfas can incentivise healthier consumer choices. tfas are very damaging, and are found in a lot of different products, but a lot of consumers may not be aware of that. is very important that consumers know what they are assuming and what can be found in certain products. the health of the citizens is one of the main priorities of my group, especially considering food. i agree with the request that such a proposal has to be made within two years. moreover it has to be accompanied by an impact assessment evaluating the industrial reformulation costs and consequent analysis and economic adaptations.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to congratulate mr lehne, the new president, on his election. i hope we can work well together. the figures in the debate have already been mentioned. a 3.8 percent error rate, way too high. i agree with what mr de jong has to say on this. but the second element is that the court's report also states for the umpteenth time that the corrections could have been much greater if the member states had used the information available to them for all those cases where management is shared between the member states and the commission. without those corrections, that would have been 4.4 percent, but if they had used all that information, that figure could have gone down to 3.8 percent. hence the need for action. i think that naming and shaming member states that make mistakes, that do not do their job, is one of the elements. the court of auditors' report deals with this in detail. we also see a lot of examples, and i think that's a good thing. secondly, mrs georgieva has made it very clear: spending money, correctly and on time, that's one thing, but getting value for your money, getting value for money, that's another thing. i am very pleased, mr lehne, that you and your colleagues and all your staff are also paying particular attention to this in this report from the court of auditors. are the objectives realistic, were the costs reasonable, was there sufficient output? finally, a third point. we see an increasing use of financial instruments. the court of auditors cannot audit these instruments. so that means that there is a danger, a danger of fraud and of carelessness. i hope that you, mr zeller, as rapporteur, together with the shadow rapporteurs, will pay particular attention to this in your report.
i am pleased to see the annual report of our court of auditors and i thank the court of auditors for it. one thing is particularly disturbing, and that is the lukewarm and weak reception of the conclusions about money not going to the right place; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the commission's reactions are vague and uncommitted. member states are asked to remedy deficiencies. the commission will continue to 'pay attention to the shortcomings'. new procedures may lead to a financial correction. no wonder the results are not there and only a small improvement can be seen. you curse and spit at what you call 'the populists' several times a day. but the political level here in this european parliament should be much stricter. the court of auditors' annual report is about tax money, a lot of tax money. and the margin of error which has been restored is a thorn in the side of the taxpayers, who - even the court of auditors - argue that the european institutions are rapidly losing their credibility.
i think this debate is coming on way too late. it is good that it is being carried out, but at this very moment, today, the camp in calais is being evacuated. i was there a week ago, 1022 children, sleeping in a miserable igloo while it's freezing outside. that is the picture of how we deal with asylum seekers, with children, in europe. so, colleagues, let's really put our fists on the table. let us now make a real effort, together with the commission, to give that action plan a new lease of life. there are 10,000 children missing in europe. europol warns and says they're in prostitution and killed for their organs, and we? we're not doing anything! so two things. first , let 's make a real plan of action . how do we catch them? how do we ensure that they do not fall back into the hands of human traffickers? secondly, commissioner, what are we going to do to find those 10,000 children? because if we think that they cannot be in cellars with people like the ones we have known in belgium, the so-called dutroux, then we are dreaming. let's go find them and save them. it is our duty. [the speaker will answer a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.]
"blue card" is the answer. yes, of course, colleague. i can't argue with that. of course we can do that, and i'm going even further. i have visited many asylum centres in belgium and they have very good practices which help us to prevent children from disappearing again in europe. let's just exchange those good practices. let's also report to the police immediately and distribute posters when a child disappears from an asylum center. and not, like, a week later, report it and then be on the lookout for every lead. so of course i agree; you'll have our support.
children are at great risk as a result of the unprecedented migration to europe. last summer i visited the greek refugee camps, including the camp in moria, where yesterday, during riots, migrants set fire to the easo office. the greek authorities must do more to maintain order and prevent children from being sold or forced into prostitution, as we saw in greece last summer. but we must not be naive. the current legislation encourages deception. adults are pretending to be minors. photos of alleged children leaving the calais camp this week show that they are young people over 18. let us first protect the children who need our protection, and then punish those who take advantage of it by lying.
for the ecr group relations with the last dictatorship in europe have never been very smooth. each time we bumped into the belarusian reality: the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for the implementation of the convention. lukashenko has been bound hand and foot to moscow since he came to power 22 years ago. and yet belarus is trying to normalize its relations with the west, with a heavy hand. especially now that big brother russia is no longer able to fully support the economy financially. if minsk reorients its foreign policy, this could have a positive impact on the domestic course, but the eu will have to draw clear red lines. one of my major concerns is the new nuclear power station at ostrovetz, a stone's throw from the border with the european union. lukashenko boasts that he is building the world's cheapest nuclear power plant there at a record pace, but international safety standards are not being met. i fear that the european commission has not sufficiently taken up this concern in its renewed dialogue and i ask ... [the president shall remove the speaker from the floor. ]
for the ecr group erdogan's obsession with silencing the turkish press and only letting his truth be heard goes so far as to silence even mickey mouse. zarok tv, the kurdish children's channel, is one of the 23 television stations that were taken off the air. kurdish children must now grow up thinking that watching cartoons in their native language is a crime. the so-called fight against terrorism goes a long way when a government sees a children's programme as a threat to national security; all the relationships are gone. even before the failed coup, journalists were barred from entering turkey. now the last critical voices are being stifled. 130 journalists are in prison. in the competent committee of the turkish parliament, the court of justice confirms that new special units are entering the prisons to torture them. i would like to mention explicitly the names of inan kizilkaya and bilir kaya, the editors-in-chief of the newspaper gündem, who were imprisoned in silivri. inan and bilir confirm they're being tortured and isolated. as a human being and a former journalist, i abhor it. our commissioners and the president of parliament have expressed their concern, their great concern, their extreme concern, but none of this has made much of an impression on erdogan. it 's too late . without a free, independent media, there is no democracy. unfortunately, this is the situation in turkey, a candidate country. we have given this regime a perspective it did not deserve.
everyone has said it, 130 journalists in turkey in prison for doing their job. 2,500 journalists who have lost their jobs since the failed coup. 150 media companies that have closed their doors. there can be no freedom of the press in an atmosphere of fear and mistrust. any journalist who criticizes the current government's policies is being monitored. self-censorship is a slap on the wrist. meanwhile, turkey ranks 151st in the world press freedom index, after tajikistan and after congo. even in europe, the large turkish community is being informed unilaterally. amnesty international is also concerned about human rights violations and human rights watch spoke last tuesday about torture in prisons. fellas, i think we need to wake up. there is no point in negotiating with turkey if journalists are being held in dark basements. freedom of expression and freedom of thought are fundamental rights in europe and we must defend them. so let's stop the talks with turkey. let us call on turkey to release the journalists who are being held without evidence and let us send observers to monitor the situation in prisons. because journalists, like other prisoners, have rights.
madam president, volunteering is celebrating its 20th anniversary. twenty years of experience. there are as many unique experiences as there are participants. over 100,000 people have thus experienced a rewarding adventure, both individually and collectively, because that is what volunteering is all about: a rewarding experience, but above all, an experience to be valued. the european union has understood this well, insisting in all its initiatives on informal and non-formal learning, this school of life that has nothing to envy to academic pathways. i am therefore convinced that everyone should be encouraged to take part in this type of commitment and programme, regardless of age, gender or background. these programmes must be made as accessible as possible to citizens, the work done must be given a high value by recognising - not too importantly - the skills that come with it, and the recognition of the status of european volunteer must also be formalised. volunteering is the european spirit in its most concrete form. it is the expression of solidarity; it is citizenship that does useful work; it's about opening up to the world and to each other. these voluntary activities contribute to mutual and intercultural understanding, an understanding of the other that is too often lacking in our societies. through the european voluntary service, win-win relationships are established and strong human adventures are born. access to these initiatives must be promoted and, more generally, the possibilities for european mobility, especially for young people, must be developed. this is what the new generation is asking for, as various programmes, including erasmus+, demonstrate. all the studies prove it. there is no single model, no single path worth following to find one's place in society. in addition to the traditional pathways, we must in particular stimulate and promote alternance learning, which offers a royal road to employment, including experiences abroad. for the past few months, together with the european parliament and the commission, which has made a clear commitment, we have been developing this mobility in a pilot project. the european voluntary service is 20 years old, a good age for travel. on this anniversary, if there is a wish that can be expressed, it is that this voluntary service be recognized for its true value, a value of the european union. the european voluntary service, erasmus+ and european alternation are all features of the union which will cement the european cohesion of tomorrow. it's a response to those who advocate closed and withdrawn identities. we must oppose them with open identities of young people, citizens who are indeed from their village, their region, their country, the european union, but who are also actors in the world, a generation that does not cultivate selfishness but, on the contrary, solidarity.
in writing. ‒ in this discharge report, the eu parliament reiterates its regret, inter alia, that the european council and the council do not provide parliament with their annual activity reports and that the budgets of the european council and the council have not yet been separated, as recommended by parliament in its recent discharge resolutions. i agree with the demands and share the view that the european council and the council are sending a negative signal to the citizens of the union by their unwillingness to cooperate with the discharge authority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report unanimously approved by the committee on budgetary control which refuses to give the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. the report regrets that the council remained silent on the observations made by parliament in april 2016 on discharge and that the european council and the council do not present an annual activity report to parliament. it reiterated its call on the council to provide it with a range of information and to adopt a code of conduct as soon as possible in order to ensure the integrity of the institution.
in writing. as far as i am concerned, the eu institutions must work as openly as possible, in the most transparent way possible, but also as closely as possible to the citizens. these are absolutely essential criteria, from which we cannot derogate, because they represent the very essence of the european union, which has a duty to explain, clarify and inform the european citizen. not considering that the european council and the council have fulfilled their duty of transparency by not presenting to parliament their annual activity report and also several other information concerning expenditure incurred, i have decided to refuse the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. their behaviour, in my view, is damaging to the reputation of the institutions of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative resolution which, in accordance with the prerogatives of the european parliament, refuses to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. the failure to forward to parliament the financial documents requested from the council infringes both the right to information and the right to transparency vis-à-vis the citizens of the union. it is therefore necessary for the council to take action on the problem urgently in order to respect the role of the european parliament as conferred on it by the treaties.
in writing. - i voted for discharge. i take this opportunity to express my disappointment that the european council and the council do not present their annual activity reports to parliament. this is unacceptable and damages the reputation of the institutions of the european union!
in writing. ‒ the european parliament cannot give the secretary-general of the council a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014, because of the large amount of information missing. the council has not yet responded to the observations made by parliament in its discharge resolution of 28 april 2016 on the trend of increasing under-spending and carry-overs of appropriations from previous years. parliament regretted that the european council and the council did not submit their annual activity reports to parliament, calling this unacceptable and damaging to the reputation of the eu institutions. for example, only three of the 27 questions submitted to the council by the members of the committee on budgetary control for the financial year 2014 have been clearly answered. the european parliament takes its role as budgetary controller seriously.
in writing. ‒ in line with the proposal of the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the discharge for eniac for the financial year 2014.
in writing. eniac was established on 20 december 2007 with the aim of developing and implementing a ten-year research programme for the development of key competences for nanoelectronics in different application areas. i have decided to vote in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of eniac for the financial year 2014. in fact, attaching great importance to the principle of transparency and openness, which is essential for the european citizen, i consider that the accounts of eniac present faithfully, in all their significant aspects, the financial situation of the company as well as the results of its operations and cash flows. i therefore consider that the undertaking has fulfilled its obligations.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to vote in favour of postponing the european parliament's decision on the discharge to be given to the director of the eniac joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014. i am concerned that the court of auditors has for the fourth year in a row delivered a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. - i voted for discharge. i take this opportunity to express my disappointment that the european council and the council do not present their annual activity reports to parliament. this is unacceptable and damages the reputation of the institutions of the european union!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the annual accounts for the period 1 january 2014 to 26 june 2014 give a true and fair view of the financial position as at 26 june 2014 and of the results of operations and cash flows for the period ended on that date, in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the commission's accounting officer.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the proposal of the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the discharge for the financial year 2014 in respect of artemis.
in writing. the artemis joint undertaking, established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years, was given the task of establishing and implementing a research programme for the development of key technologies for embedded it systems in different application areas in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the european union and sustainable development and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications. however, to date, the activities of artemis have been taken over by the ecscel joint undertaking. nevertheless, the accounts of artemis were regularly audited for the period up to its integration into ecsel. i voted in favour of granting the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. i also called for the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to grant the director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking and the director of the european iter joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. in voting for these two reports, i nevertheless support the recommendations made to these two companies and hope that they will be taken into account in the future.
in writing. - i voted for discharge. i take this opportunity to express my disappointment that the european council and the council do not present their annual activity reports to parliament. this is unacceptable and damages the reputation of the institutions of the european union!
in writing. ‒ in line with the proposal of the committee on budgetary control, i voted in favour of the discharge for iter for the financial year 2014.
in writing. on the basis of the positive development of the iter joint undertaking, in particular its encouraging results in completing all project stages on schedule and the facilities it was able to obtain from the spanish government in terms of lease and premises, i voted the discharge on the implementation of the budget of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to grant the director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking and the director of the european iter joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. in voting for these two reports, i nevertheless support the recommendations made to these two companies and hope that they will be taken into account in the future.
in writing. - i voted for discharge. i take this opportunity to express my disappointment that the european council and the council do not present their annual activity reports to parliament. this is unacceptable and damages the reputation of the institutions of the european union!
in writing. ‒ the resolution points out that 1.5 million people in mosul are at immediate risk of displacement. the eu has so far provided €134 million in humanitarian aid to iraq, including €50 million for mosul. the council also called on the iraqi authorities to protect the civilian population during the offensive and to prevent human rights violations. the european union is also calling on all parties to the conflict to open humanitarian corridors, provide protection and establish a united nations mechanism for third party monitoring. i join the call for the iraqi government to take all necessary precautions to protect the civilian population, hospitals and schools on their march towards mosul. i also support the international criminal court's handling of the atrocities committed by is against christians, yazidis and other minorities.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the joint resolution supporting the operation launched by iraq to liberate mosul from the islamic state group. it also recalled that troops and militias on the ground must respect international humanitarian law and international human rights law during their operations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution to support the iraqi operation to liberate mosul from the hands of the islamic state group. this operation is being conducted jointly with kurdish peshmerga forces and the international coalition. it is, in my view, essential to liberate this city where the 'islamic state' group has been committing atrocities and genocide against christians, yazidis and other ethnic and religious minorities since 2014. however, we must be very careful because 1.5 million people are at imminent risk of being displaced as a direct result of this military intervention. it is therefore urgent that all parties to the conflict open humanitarian aid corridors and guarantee assistance. all necessary measures must be taken to protect civilians! i think, however, that our mission will not stop there. once the city is retaken, eu member states will have to step up efforts to stabilise the liberated areas. given the historical ethno-religious diversity of northern iraq, the international community will need to support the establishment of a sustainable and inclusive post-conflict structure with greater autonomy for the nineveh plain, sinjar and tal afar regions.
in writing. by voting in favour of the resolution on the situation in northern iraq and mosul, we once again demonstrate the european union's continued and determined support for the iraqi authorities in their fight against the islamic state and for the iraqi people who are suffering from serious human rights violations. our concern is to encourage all actors involved in this fight to inflict a lasting defeat on daesh. as the icrc says, the population has the right to flee and seek safety, as well as the right to recover their property and to be protected in accordance with humanitarian and international law. the iraqi authorities must ensure that the human rights of all individuals and minorities, irrespective of their religion, are respected, by helping them to flee the city and by ensuring adequate protection of infrastructure, hospitals and schools. the european union must use all its political and diplomatic influence to ensure that the international criminal court can prosecute members of the islamic state group for war crimes and crimes against humanity.
in writing. ‒ by voting in favour of this resolution, i wish to support the operation launched by iraq to liberate mosul from the islamic state. of course, it is crucial that the iraqi authorities take all possible measures to protect the civilian population during these operations. in addition, as the resolution stresses, it is also important to be able to open humanitarian corridors to allow the civilian population to flee. finally, i would like to express my deep disgust at the heinous behaviour of daesh members who use the civilian population as human shields against military liberation operations.
in writing. ‒ with this vote, we take a firm stand for the operation launched by iraq to liberate mosul from the islamic state group. i believe that this operation is a crucial element in an ongoing global effort to inflict a lasting defeat on the islamic state group. i am convinced that iraq will prevail in this fight against a common enemy and liberate mosul and other parts of the country from the presence of the islamic state group. we reaffirm our full support for iraq's independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty and its right to take the necessary measures to preserve them. we are concerned about the recent tensions between regional actors. we call for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of iraq to be fully respected and for no military action to be taken in iraq without the consent of the iraqi government. we stress the importance of fostering dialogue between iraq and the countries of the region in order to build a more secure world in the middle east.
written. ‒ the iraqi army, backed by the international coalition against isis/da'esh and the peshmerga fighters of the kurdish regional government and the hashd al-shaabi militia, has launched an offensive to retake mosul, iraq's second largest city, and many towns and villages in the mosul corridor from isis/da'esh. the leader of isis would be hiding there. it's one of the last strongholds of the terrorist organization. the resolution urges the government of iraq and its international partners to give priority to finding peaceful solutions to conflicts over the internal borders of the republic of iraq. i supported this resolution because it calls on the european union, the united nations and the entire international community to work with the national and regional governments of the republic of iraq to ensure the reintegration of all iraqis and all displaced ethnic and religious minorities. the conflict must end and civilians must be able to return to humane situations.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution. this area is politically and militarily very instable at the moment, and this goes at the expense of the population in iraq. isis imposed a draconian regime in mosul and the inhabitants who managed to escape recently report that people are starving and desperate to be liberated. this situation goes against any human right, that’s why i stand behind this resolution. the necessary security conditions should be ensured for all those who have been forced to leave their homeland or have been forcibly displaced. i strongly condemn the ongoing violence and mass executions by isis/daesh in iraq, and that’s why we are trying to take any possible action to alleviate this situation.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution which strongly condemns the coup d'état in turkey, supports the legitimate institutions in turkey and recognises the right of the turkish government to react to this attempt but which considers that this cannot be used as a pretext to muzzle the legitimate opposition or to deprive, by disproportionate and unlawful acts, journalists and the media of the peaceful exercise of their freedom of expression. the resolution therefore calls for the release of journalists and media professionals who are detained without irrefutable evidence of criminal activity.
in writing. following the attempted military coup on 15 july, the turkish government has arrested and intimidated journalists and media workers, as well as television and radio stations. more than 130 media workers are detained and more than 99 journalists and writers have been arrested by the turkish police. the declaration of the state of emergency has led the government to intensify repression, violating respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the principle of separation of powers, the rights of minorities, the freedom to practice the religion of one's choice, etc. while strongly condemning the attempted coup and expressing my sincere solidarity with the victims and their families, i would like to stress that the government's response must not in any way give rise to disproportionate or arbitrary repression against journalists and media outlets peacefully exercising their freedom of expression. the acts committed are in total contradiction with the principles of democracy and the rule of law, which europe defends. it is not acceptable to compromise on these principles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution calling for the release of journalists detained without evidence of criminal activity. turkey holds the unfortunate first place in the world for the imprisonment of journalists. it is urgent that the more than 150 media outlets that have been closed down can once again operate independently and that the dismissed employees are reinstated. freedom of the press is a value which must be protected in a democratic society.
in writing. - i am a co-signer of this resolution. we demand that the turkish government respect all the conditions of democracy and the rule of law and put an end to discrimination against citizens in respect of freedom of expression and other fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i spoke in plenary to say that europe must indeed reconsider its position towards turkey. not only is erdogan damaging the rule of law, he is also completely ignoring democracy and free speech. we can no longer pretend our noses are bleeding and ignore this. we must urgently review turkey's status as a candidate country and our cooperation projects with turkey. erdogan can't get away with this.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since for me as a liberal, the situation of the journalists in turkey is unacceptable both from a human rights and freedom perspective. we have to stand and defend democracy, with a full commitment to human rights and the rule of law. certain journalists are still being persecuted by erdogan’s government and journalism in the country is still totally biased and influenced by the government, and this is totally against my liberal point of view. i believe that we as europe, should stand united against this trampling on human rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported this joint resolution in which parliament expresses its deep concern at the deterioration of the security situation in the eu's neighbourhood (resulting in particular from russia's attitude) and beyond. this deterioration could lead to a resurgence of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent and proliferation among state and non-state actors and the absence of effective disarmament and non-proliferation measures. the resolution therefore calls on all nuclear powers to take concrete interim measures to mitigate the risk of nuclear explosion and to rapidly reduce the number of nuclear weapons of all types.
in writing. security in the world has deteriorated considerably, due in particular to global and multidimensional threats. the international community must redouble its efforts to achieve the objectives of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (npt), which aims in particular to eliminate nuclear arsenals and to prevent new states from acquiring nuclear weapons. but, as mr ban ki-moon said, multilateral nuclear disarmament has reached a dead end. tens of billions of dollars are spent on maintaining and improving nuclear weapons systems. thus, in defiance of the international community, north korea is increasing its nuclear tests in order to build up a nuclear arsenal and ballistic missiles. it is our duty, for the good of humanity, to prevent these weapons from spreading across the world, thanks to scientific and technological progress. the npt, although not perfect, is a means of combating the establishment of anarchy in the world. it is therefore essential that the union strongly reaffirms its commitment to ensuring security in the world. the next round of review of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons will begin in 2017. the world cannot afford another cycle of inaction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation because i am very concerned about the deterioration of the security situation in the union's neighbourhood which could lead to a resurgence of nuclear weapons. i am also concerned about the current attitude of russia, which is aggravating the nuclear threat. i therefore call on all the nuclear powers to take account of the recommendations made in this resolution.
in writing. ‒ global security, and in particular that of the eu, has deteriorated significantly: she's more erratic and less predictable. international peace, security and stability are facing a variety of developments: the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in the former yugoslavia, the deteriorating relations between nuclear-armed states such as russia and the united states and further developments in north korea's nuclear capabilities. the proliferation of nuclear weapons of mass destruction remains one of the major concerns of the global community. for these reasons and in the public interest, the european parliament is proposing a resolution to address these problems and to encourage the european union to take action in the field of nuclear safety and non-proliferation. the priorities include preventing the acquisition or use of nuclear weapons by terrorists or by additional states, reducing and eliminating all nuclear arsenals and working towards a world without nuclear weapons. the resolution also highlights important developments and concerns and makes some compelling recommendations. as nuclear safety and non-proliferation are extremely important issues for me and for the green group as a whole, i have co-signed this resolution and adopted it with full conviction.
in writing. ‒ we hereby recognise the right of officially nuclear-weapon states to maintain, as an essential component of national security, a nuclear deterrent potential, in view of the many nuclear arsenals still in existence in the world, the possible development and proliferation of nuclear weapons, and the risk of increased international instability and tensions. we support the objectives of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, which provides a global framework for preventing the spread of nuclear weapons, promoting the safe and reliable use of civilian nuclear energy and ultimately achieving a nuclear-free world. both a security context and a sustainable denuclearisation necessarily require a multilateral approach.
in writing. ‒ for years i have been fighting for non-proliferation. i have spoken out several times in favour of non-proliferation in the belgian chamber of representatives. the overall trend was positive. there was a decrease. i regret that nuclear weapons are again becoming part of the strategic planning of nuclear powers, contrary to what was hoped. i agree with the joint resolution to urge closer consultation with all the nuclear powers to pursue a common agenda aimed at the gradual reduction of the nuclear arsenal.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because the global security environment, and particularly that of the eu, has deteriorated considerably, becoming more fluid, more precarious and less predictable. that is why action is needed. one of the main priorities is to prevent terrorists from obtaining or using nuclear weapons. i agree with an open dialogue with all nuclear-armed states trying to pursue a common agenda aimed at progressive reductions of nuclear warheads. this topic is very sensible, especially now with the ongoing tensions in the middle east.
in writing. ‒ in its request for an oral reply to the commission, parliament points out that the eu needs a better coordinated policy in the field of voluntary activity. almost 100 million eu citizens are involved in education, culture or the arts, sporting events, humanitarian aid and development aid as volunteers. young people should take advantage of volunteering programmes to develop skills and gain experience that will help them find jobs later. a supportive environment would be essential to further promote volunteering. i would therefore very much welcome a legal framework with clear rights and responsibilities for all actors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. we recognise that volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that enhances active citizenship and personal human development, and that it is an essential tool for social integration and cohesion, alongside training, education and intercultural dialogue, and contributes significantly to the dissemination of european values. the benefits of volunteering are also recognised in volunteering activities with third countries, as it is a strategic tool that promotes mutual understanding and intercultural relations.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the removal of the remaining obstacles to european volunteering. at present, despite the social and economic benefits of volunteering, both for individuals and organisations, participation in european voluntary service remains modest. this is why the european union needs a better coordinated policy on volunteering. citizens of all ages, and especially young people, need to be able to take advantage of this system to develop their skills and gain experience that will be useful to them in the labour market. to this end, it is essential to establish a clear legal framework defining the rights and responsibilities of programme managers and volunteers. organisations should also be encouraged to increase their participation in programmes involving volunteers by allowing their work to be taken into account by member states, as part of project co-financing. but that is not enough. it is essential that the european commission improves its communication strategy and public access to information about the opportunities offered by the european voluntary service, that a single contact point is set up in the union institutions and that a simpler application system is established.
in writing. in 2016, the european voluntary service is celebrating its 20th anniversary. over the past 20 years, it has supported 100 000 volunteers aged 17-30. volunteering is a major force in our civil society. it has added value as an expression of solidarity, which enhances and facilitates social integration, contributes to the construction of social capital and has a transformative effect on society. volunteering should also be recognised as part of economic capital, as it contributes to the union's economic growth. i strongly support this kind of enriching initiative which gives the volunteer candidate the opportunity to work on himself, as part of a participatory and collective work in the service of society. however, i remain convinced of the need to improve the communication strategy on the humanistic values of such a service. it would be a failure to reduce this programme to the possibility of free travel across europe. to avoid this kind of drift, we need a proper framework that clearly defines the rights and responsibilities of volunteers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legal recognition of the european volunteer status, because volunteering is a valuable experience and... an experience to be valued. these activities bring the european spirit to life in its most concrete form. it is the expression of solidarity, of citizenship that does useful work, it is openness to the world and to others. these voluntary experiences contribute to mutual and intercultural understanding, which is why mobility projects such as this and those of the erasmus+ programme should be developed and financially supported.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. we recognise that volunteering is an expression of solidarity, freedom and responsibility that enhances active citizenship and personal human development, and that it is an essential tool for social integration and cohesion, alongside training, education and intercultural dialogue, and contributes significantly to the dissemination of european values. the benefits of volunteering are also recognised in volunteering activities with third countries, as it is a strategic tool that promotes mutual understanding and intercultural relations.
in writing. ‒ in europe, nearly 100 million citizens of all ages are volunteers. their efforts contribute to the production of about 5% of european gdp. i voted in favour of this resolution to ask the commission to take account of the economic value of goods and services generated by volunteers by making policy more voluntary. national, regional and local authorities should also provide adequate funding, streamline administrative procedures and provide fiscal incentives for voluntary organisations and networks, especially for small organisations with limited resources. volunteers are invaluable in our society; they often form the cement of society.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which provides an evaluation of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015. the report stresses in particular that the next cycle (2016-2018) will have to focus on the causes of youth unemployment, which remains far too high. it will have to combat school drop-out, invest in education, apprenticeships, apprenticeships and vocational training and facilitate the transition to the labour market through measures ensuring better coordination between educational programmes, employment policy and labour market requirements.
in writing. ‒ with regard to youth policy, the eu's role is primarily to support member states' policies. in this resolution, however, parliament is constantly entering the territory of the member states. in addition, there are several recommendations, such as encouraging education in the mother tongues of minorities to halting any cuts in health care, which we do not support. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. europe is proud of its youth. however, in a context of increasing socioeconomic disparities, there is a need for sustainable solutions to tackle youth unemployment and to strengthen their social inclusion. this implies more systematic cooperation on a whole range of policies for our young people at eu and member state level, including employment, education, training, anti-discrimination, social policy, citizenship, culture, sport and health. i believe that the next cycle of the youth strategy must include young refugees and asylum seekers in its objectives, otherwise it will be a lost generation. this inclusive approach will further promote their integration and strengthen the character of living together among young people from different countries and cultures in the host countries. it is essential to support this young people with fantastic potential for society and the economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the evaluation of the european union youth strategy 2013-2015. at the end of the study, it appears that countries with poor statistical indicators should adopt more good practices in youth policy and implement more widely the means of positive effect formulated in the framework of the open method of coordination. to reduce youth unemployment and improve their quality of life, more systematic cooperation is needed at union and member state level in several policy areas such as employment, education and training, social policy, youth policy, and culture, sport and health. by providing sufficient financial resources for the implementation of youth programmes, the european union has an interest in creating a link between the various actors, bringing them together, exchanging ideas, showing the way and building bridges between these people and also between the various policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the evaluation of the european union youth strategy 2013-2015, following the advice of the experts in my political group.
in writing. ‒ young people are one of europe's greatest assets and a guarantee for the future. the european union and its member states must therefore not let the potential of knowledge, creativity, talents and skills of europe's 90 million young people go unused. the economic crisis has hit young people particularly hard. the gap between certain groups of young people has widened, with some of them becoming increasingly marginalized from society and civic life. this situation is exacerbated by the fact that some of them are at risk of losing their active participation in society, being excluded, isolated or even violent radicalisation. the eu youth strategy, covering the period 2010-2018, sets out the following eight areas for action: education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and well-being, participation, volunteering, social inclusion, youth and the world, creativity and culture. i wholeheartedly support this strategy.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that young people should be actively involved in the planning, development, implementation, monitoring and assessment of all youth policies. it can be noticed that young people are politically engaged in many ways, but their participation in elections is decreasing. from my liberal point of view, i believe in the liberty of expression and that an increase in different opinions only be beneficial for the policy decision-making process. i believe that education and training can contribute to tackling social disengagement, marginalisation and radicalisation of young people. for example the specific nature of sports activity and its contribution to the social inclusion of disadvantaged young people, especially refugees and migrants, can help to overcome xenophobia and racism.
in writing. ‒ in its own-initiative report, parliament had examined how the common agricultural policy (cap) could be used to improve job creation in rural areas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: it also suggests that member states increase support for small and medium-sized enterprises and pay more attention to disadvantaged areas (e.g. mountainous regions, overseas regions, outermost regions, sensitive natural areas) where the maintenance of agriculture is a key factor in economic, social and environmental development, with a focus on employment. i welcome many of the points made in the adopted text, but not all of them, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report by my socialist colleague eric andrieu (fr) on how the common agricultural policy (cap) can improve job creation in rural areas. rural areas account for more than 77% of the territory of the european union and a very large number of jobs in these areas are linked to agriculture and the agri-food industry. as the economic crisis has particularly affected rural areas, it is crucial that the union mobilises the range of tools at its disposal to help these territories in difficulty. after stressing the need to maintain the two pillars of the cap, namely support for agricultural markets and incomes and rural development policy, the report calls on the member states to create future prospects for young farmers in order to respond to the rural exodus, in particular by making full use of the opportunities offered by the new cap, and to strengthen their support for small and medium-sized farms, in particular by making greater use of the redistributive payment.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report looks at what measures can be taken under the common agricultural policy to boost employment in rural areas. the n-va meps did not support this text because it calls for a unilateral solution, namely increasing financial support for local farmers. moreover, this report already calls for more resources for agriculture beyond 2020 (end of the current multiannual financial framework) and almost completely ignores a very important factor for job creation, which is innovation. the commission is also asked to provide financial support for social measures which should in principle be decided by flanders. finally, the text is very clear about the possible negative consequences of concluding international trade agreements, but it ignores the creation of jobs that goes with it.
in writing. in the context of the common agricultural policy, it is the commission's task to develop initiatives that provide a solution to the crises in agriculture and at the same time generate sustainable employment in farms. our european agriculture has the strength to aspire to a leading position on the world market. to achieve this objective, adequate resources will have to be allocated to foster innovation in agriculture and rural policy. a better distribution of cap payments to smaller farms, adapting intervention prices to cost price developments, but also shortening supply chains and promoting our excellent food quality systems and our renowned european gastronomy on the world market can create a favourable dynamic and create sustainable employment in rural areas. despite some good elements in the report which aim to support small and family businesses, i did not approve the report in the final vote because the negative references to trade agreements such as ceta and ttip are a sign of great fatalism. the international trade agreements must be seen as an opportunity to promote the strengths of our european agriculture and the export of our unique agricultural products and to support employment opportunities in agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on how the common agricultural policy can improve job creation in rural areas. i share the view of the rapporteur of this resolution, who calls on the member states to be able to create future prospects for young farmers and to support small and mediumsized farms. i also supported this request to increase the possibility of granting coupled payments and to make this type of support more flexible. in line with these elements, but also with many other recommendations made in this resolution, i have decided to support it.
in writing. ‒ while the direct payments from the common agricultural policy (cap) help and support farmers to stay active, they also lead to more concentration, business scale-up and a number of super-industrial firms that rely heavily on chemical inputs and monocultures and create little employment. this report draws attention to this. between 2000 and 2012, 4.8 million jobs in the sector disappeared in europe. small firms are more labour intensive, and yet we see that resources are not always distributed fairly. the report calls for more benefits to be granted to small and medium-sized farms after 2020. now 13% of the companies receive 74% of the funds. the administration of the cap must also be simplified and the second pillar of rural development must be strengthened to create as many jobs as possible. rural services and infrastructure must be robust so that people are attracted to living and working in rural areas. solutions include short-chain initiatives, organic farming, diversification in tourism, renewable energy production or farm shops, or investments in sustainable agricultural models. the vote on the motion for a resolution was a vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my distinguished colleague mr andrieu. the creation of future prospects for young farmers is needed to respond to the rural exodus. implementing a comprehensive strategy for the renewal of generations; and to do so, make full use of the opportunities offered by the new cap to support young farmers and newcomers, including outside the family context, in particular through support measures for young farmers in the first and second pillars, as well as by facilitating the establishment and creation of businesses by newcomers over 40 years of age. national policy measures (land policy, tax and social policy, etc.) must be complementary to and compatible with the provisions in question.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the focus here was on small farmers. the european parliament voted overwhelmingly against the amendments which wrongly referred to the negative effects that ceta (the free trade agreement with canada) would have on employment. it is good that the european parliament is paying attention to small farms and that we as the eu want them to have a future too.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution on the common agricultural policy because it contains some very interesting points to create a more efficient and well-managed cap. we need to look at how we can reduce the level of administrative burden, especially for our smes. we also underline the positive effects farmers have in our rural areas, and how they create sustainable local jobs. agriculture is a vital sector, which is also increasingly being modernised and made more efficient. i believe we should continue in this direction.
question for the council mr tarand, i know that in estonia the sun rises very late and sets very early in winter. in most european countries, when autumn comes, the sun is obviously less present. you said, mr tarand, that it increased the risk of accidents. do you not think that the increase in accidents is due more to the weather conditions - since frost is more frequent in october and, especially, november - than to the change in time?
mr president, i am going to raise a dissonant voice here in relation to all the colleagues i have heard so far. i am a supporter of the time change, and especially of daylight saving time. why would you do that? because when i was 13 years old and at school at the collège saint-roch de ferrières in belgium, after the easter holidays of 1976, the time change was applied for the first time. thanks to daylight saving time, we were able to play football and basketball in the sports fields that had no lights. from this real-life example, i just wanted to tell you that the lighting later in the evening allows children in particular - and it is good for their health - to stay a little more outside in physical activity, while leisure activities - we know - have become very sedentary. the second benefit is the terraces and the conviviality. instead of swallowing pills to fight depression, let's sit on a deck, it's the best antidepressant. it's good for business and for people to talk to each other. therefore, the change to daylight saving time makes it easier to get along with people. it's not the merchants who will contradict us. there are other benefits to returning to daylight saving time. as mrs reid has just said, wintertime is the best time to take advantage of natural daylight. when the sunlight is less, the return to daylight saving time allows for a little earlier morning light and therefore perhaps more safety, especially on the way to school. that is why i think harmonization is obviously useful. we know that the united kingdom has often made different choices. it's normal, the greenwich meridian passes through his territory. i was listening to the canary islands being mentioned earlier. since they are at 28 degrees west latitude, it makes sense that they have a different time. however, harmonization throughout europe and a simultaneous change from wintertime to summertime and vice versa are obviously fundamental. don't change anything tell mr. timmermans he can sit on that file, too. let's not change anything! (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is "blue cardboard". mrs ayala sender, perhaps we could fund studies that would show otherwise, perhaps we haven't. i'm just saying that for the conviviality and more enjoyment of the daylight when spring and summer come, this seems fundamental to me, but when i hear about the changes, clearly, we have to stop. when you fly to a country where there's a two-hour time difference, you change your watch. now we don't even have to change the cell phone, it changes itself. so we adapt. jetlag exists for those who travel every day and here, in this room, there are quite a few who fly. when you go on the clock, you know you've got an extra hour of sleep. when we switch to daylight saving time, we have one less and so, we may go to bed earlier. it can be a problem the next day, the next two days, and then it's forgotten. let's stop this nonsense!
i have great confidence in the rapporteur, our catalan colleague ramon tremosa. this report will do us good, we're going in the right direction. i have much less confidence in the promotion talk we have been given here at the beginning of mr draghi's speech. i sincerely believe that people do not need such european promotional talk. what they do need and what they are entitled to is an explanation. they have a right to an explanation of what the european institutions are doing. they have a right to an explanation in plain language, in a language they understand, because i am aware that not everyone today understands the consequences of your policies, mr draghi. not everyone sees the consequences of your decision to print money in bulk, of your extremely low interest rates. yes, people see that their savings are no longer profitable, but do they also know that your policies are putting their pensions at risk? do they also know that your policies are increasing inequality rather than reducing it? do they also know that your policies are affecting our productivity and therefore affecting people's purchasing power? we have to do something about that. we must teach people again what happens to their money, because today they are paying for education mainly because of your policies and your monetary games.
the ecb is perhaps the only central bank in the world, and perhaps in history, to have become a political body to such a large extent. it is perhaps the only central bank that has extended its mandate to the point of becoming a de facto political body, but without any democratic control, which is perhaps the purpose of all this. i mean, it makes sense that evolution would happen. where a normal central bank is an instrument of a political government, the central bank operates in the eurozone, a zone that has no real political authority. it operates in an area where political authority is being reconstructed in some way or the appearance of it is being given by a stability pact, by a european semester, by a banking union, by a deposit insurance scheme and so on. this is an attempt to compensate for the fact that in the eurozone, in the european union, there is no political authority to justify the existence of a single currency. keeping that vehicle on track, along with all the money you are pumping into it, along with the funds that are to be used for that, a vehicle that is doomed from the start to collapse, that keeping it on track is the stage we are at now, with an ecb that has become more and more part of the political mandate that it has given, that it has actually given itself. the promise to do 'whatever is necessary', quantitative easing, the purchase of securities or worthless securities, the powers of attorney, the special powers which the ecb can use without fear of much control: this is a situation that is causing fear among the citizens. the aim was to stimulate inflation, but this led to deflation. growth would be encouraged, but there is almost a growth stop that carries all the risks that the debt bubble you have created yourself would burst. the lack of trust among the people is something we can fully understand.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, as you know on 14 november the high representative, vice-president mogherini, presented to foreign and defence ministers the implementation plan on security and defence. this is part of the wider package, together with the commission’s european defence action plan and concrete proposals for the implementation of a joint declaration on eu/nato cooperation, signed in warsaw. the adoption of the related council conclusions last monday is a major step forward for the eu, as it opens a new chapter for all the security and defence efforts in the union. a stronger europe is what we need now more than ever, in view of the unprecedented security challenges we are facing. this is what our citizens and our partners expect from us. i would like to welcome mr urmas paet’s report on the european defence union. our views coincide in most of the areas, and the report addresses many critical issues that we have been working on in the security and defence implementation plan for the eu global strategy. the objective is to define our security and defence strategic priorities and to see how common security and defence policy, being part of wider eu efforts, can contribute to tackling today’s and tomorrow’s multifaceted security challenges, as european citizens demand. from this point of view, i am also grateful to mr paet for drawing political attention to priority policy areas and issues that need the member states’ and the european parliament’s support. i would like to mention in particular capacity building on security and development, permanent structured cooperation, deployability of the battle groups and the strengthening of the defence industry. mr paet’s report is a useful asset to our future work and to thinking ahead on how and in what direction should we move in policy issues and also in terms of structures if and when member states decide that the time has come for a european defence union. the three strategic priorities drawn from global strategy are clear: responding to crisis, building capacities of partners, and protecting the union and its citizens. it is around these three strategic priorities that the council has defined a new, comprehensive level of ambition for the eu and identified a number of actions to be undertaken in order to implement this level of a mission. let me mention some of them: setting military and civilian capacity deployment development priorities; deepening defence cooperation, including setting up a coordinated annual review on defence; exploring the possibility of permanent structured cooperation; adjusting european external action service structures to improve our planning and conduct capability for common security defence policy missions and operations; strengthening the eu rapid response toolbox; looking into financing in the area of security and defence, including revision of internal mechanism. i would like to underline a few key principles on which there was broader agreement. first, the common security and defence policy (csdp) remains an important instrument for external action. second, cooperation with our partners is essential, but the eu needs to be able to act autonomously when necessary. and third, collective defence is nato’s task so ensure full complementarity here. particularly appreciated is the report’s reference to improving our structures for planning, conduct and situational awareness. in the short-term we will address the gaps we have in the operational planning and conduct for non-executive military options. we will present a proposal as soon as possible on this. it is important to know that we are not creating big new structures, but addressing shortcomings or streamlining the present components. we welcome the report’s strong statements about the need for a fair functioning and transparent internal market and for the commission’s involvement in supporting defence research. we share the report’s statement that the current fragmentation of the market represents a weakness for the competitiveness of the european defence industry. so the european defence action plan will set out proposals to strengthen the internal market, support the competitiveness of europe’s industry and foster cooperation. the council last week encouraged the commission to support the member states in implementing the identified capacity priorities, notably through the action plan. in particular, the action plan will propose ways to ensure an effective implementation of the two defence directives: procurement and transfers. we also welcome the strong support the parliament has given to launching and providing a significant budget for preparatory action for defence research to be launched next year with a view to a substantial future defence research program under the next multiannual financial framework. we think the main message is that today’s complex security challenges can only be tackled together. therefore, we need a shared vision, a strategic framework and common actions. cooperation in the field of security and defence is a must.
in writing. with the arrival of trump it is becoming increasingly clear that we will no longer be able to automatically count on the support of the us for our security. we are now approaching the moment when we must work on a concerted effort and coordination of our police and military services to combat the terrorist threat effectively and to guard our external borders effectively. bilateral cooperation projects should be the stepping stone to programmes where we coordinate european defence efforts even more. the belgian-dutch renewal of the defence fleet is already a good example. the eu-28 spends €195 billion on defence every year. if we can better match these costs, we can save up to 26 billion euros and therefore use them more wisely. the battle groups must evolve into permanent multinational corps under a single european command. they should not only be used for peacekeeping operations but should form a single bloc within nato which can act when nato is unwilling or unable to do so. europe is still a peace project and resolves conflicts primarily at the negotiating table. but in times of crisis, we must send a clear signal that we are ready to act as one. don't mess with europe.
in a few months' time we shall be celebrating 25 years of the maastricht treaty. that treaty laid down how the member states are responsible for their social policies, for their economic policies and that they must carry out those policies within the budgetary framework we have agreed together. it is up to the european commission to ensure that these rules are respected, that everyone stays within the lines of the chalk and to impose sanctions when necessary. i think we must return to the logic of the maastricht treaty. the accounts must be in order and we must hold those member states which refuse to cooperate to account. we must also be able to impose sanctions on these member states, to take them out of the eurozone if necessary. but what do we see? that the european commission today does not seem to be planning to celebrate the maastricht treaty, but rather to bury it. what she's proposing doesn't fit within the agreed framework. the commission sees itself as a kind of european finance ministry. it is proposing matters for which it has no competence, but above all it is proposing matters which are not sensible. our structural problems, as mr hökmark has already said, will not melt away. we cannot buy growth on the cheap. in the short term, that might help us, but in the long term, it just creates more problems. besides, it's perfectly possible to save smart and grow smart. we see this in countries like the netherlands, germany and austria. that is precisely the path we must take with this european union.
i am grateful to the commission for its explanation. you rightly conclude that we need policies that lead to more employment, social justice, convergence and a positive investment climate. if we want to improve our competitiveness, we need to complete the internal markets more quickly. we must also use our funds to finance growth-enhancing and cross-border projects. but how? a budget surplus seems plausible. i have two questions about this. first of all: how does the commission motivate member states to spend a budget surplus on the collective? we cannot expect a country to invest its space in the budget if other countries do not respect the rules of the european semester. so these rules must be made enforceable. secondly: how does the commission propose to achieve a so-called spillover effect? let us make europe the most competitive region for research and innovation. only an ambitious economic and monetary policy, combined with a completed internal market, will lead to the best result.
mr president, mr vice-president, i am of course pleased with the commission's decision to ease the brakes a little to support growth. it is clear that the withdrawal of sanctions against spain and portugal, for example, will allow these countries to get off to a better start. however, several expert reports indicate that it will take many years to return to pre-crisis growth, with recovery only tentatively expected in 2018. therefore, by calling for an expansionary fiscal policy in the euro area, we naturally hope that this will allow for a faster and more substantial recovery of the economy. that's what president barack obama said last october. what we are still suffering today is the result of the austerity measures that have been taken in the past by the european union. the evidence is that today the americans have had seven years of growth in a row, while europe is still facing a weak and fragile economic recovery. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. the juncker plan is an important first step, but it must be accompanied by a productive public investment plan worthy of the name if we are to really get the economy back on its feet and support business.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank you very much for this debate on the european semester and to recall, really, that the main aim of the european semester and the economic policy priorities which we are setting within the semester is to strengthen the eu’s economic recovery and make it more sustainable. that is why we need to see the measures we are taking as a package of measures and not just pick one or another or a third element and discuss that without an overall context. that is why i would re-emphasise that there is a triangle of measures, a triangle of priorities, which we are proposing and all of those priorities are important: namely, to facilitate investment, to pursue structural reforms to modernise our economies, and to continue with responsible fiscal policies. and all of those elements are important if we are to ensure sustainable economic recovery. something which is also important in the context of the european semester is ownership by the member states. that is why we need to have a deeper engagement with the member states, but also with the social partners and other stakeholders in member states so that we really see that our policies are followed through. and nowhere will we see it better than in the context of the implementation of country-specific recommendations. there have been many debates, also in this parliament, on the level of implementation of country-specific recommendations. we discussed it last month and once again we see somewhere between limited and some progress in implementation. so certainly more work is needed in this regard. then a number of questions were asked on the communication on a positive fiscal stance for the euro area, including its legal basis. and there i would just reiterate what is said in the communication itself, and which i also outlined in the introductory statements, namely that such orientation should build on the legal framework set by the stability and growth pact and take into account broader fiscal sustainability concerns. this is something which is very clearly outlined in the communication itself, so the main logic is indeed that those member states which are in excessive deficit will still need to pursue the adjustment path towards medium-term budgetary objectives in the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact and should continue to do so, whereas those member states which have fiscal space should utilise it to stimulate the demand side of the economy and in particular to stimulate investment. so that is the overall logic of this proposal. a number of other questions were raised, including on how to motivate member states, and i think once again that this motivation is first and foremost with engagement of member states and strengthening their ownership on quality of public spending. this is something we also agree on and underline in our communication: that the quality of public spending is as important as its quantity. a question was raised on climate change objectives. this is also reflected, for example, through our work on investment, on the european structural investment fund where 20% is now earmarked for sustainable – sustainable from an elemental point of view – development on reducing bureaucracy. this is also an important work strand which we are pursuing, among other things, through our refit initiative and a number of sector-specific simplification proposals which we are putting forward. so once again, when we are working we always have to keep our mind on the main goal: to strengthen europe’s economic recovery and to make it more sustainable. and i am looking forward to constructive cooperation with this parliament towards the next steps of the european semester.
member of the commission. madam president, mr rapporteur emmanuel maurel, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to congratulate the rapporteur and all those involved in the preparation of this report, because the work that has been done has been very rapid, it is of very high quality and it will make very great progress. it is clear from the public debate, as emmanuel maurel said in his introduction, that fairness, equal treatment and social justice are very strong demands of our citizens, both at national and european level. taxation is one area where justice is absolutely necessary. this is even more true after the recent scandals we have seen - i am thinking of the latest ones, the panama papers or the bahamas leaks - which have revealed that, despite the progress we have made, particularly in terms of tax transparency, fraudsters and all those who seek to evade tax can still hide behind the opacity of offshore structures and trusts to circumvent the rules and to avoid any taxation, which is simply abhorrent to our fellow citizens today. this commission, as you have mentioned - and i thank you for pointing this out, mr rapporteur - has taken what i would call a giant step in taxation by presenting and having concrete proposals adopted to improve transparency and the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, both by individuals and by companies. the union has made transparency its standard. we are pioneers in the implementation of international standards. i was talking about this with the oecd secretary-general, mr gurría, last night, and all our member states have committed themselves to these new initiatives. after the automatic exchange of financial data, known as dac 2, tax returns, dac 3, and country-by-country reports, dac 4, the next barrier to be overcome is that of transparency in terms of beneficial ownership. it will be dac 5. the g20 also recognises this and has called for action to be taken. the information on the actual beneficiaries we are talking about today is essential in the fight against corruption and its corollary, money laundering. the directive on the table is helping us to make progress. once adopted, it will give tax authorities much-needed access to information on the beneficial owners of these opaque structures and of these little-known trusts. the tax authorities of each member state will be able to access data currently collected under european anti-money laundering rules, in particular information resulting from customer due diligence obligations and information contained in national beneficial ownership registers. with access to this information, tax authorities will be able to identify who is actually behind an opaque company or structure and to react quickly to situations of tax fraud and evasion. this access will allow a real leap forward in cross-border tax cooperation within the european union and will provide a valuable tool for member states that need it to protect the integrity of their tax systems and to fight fraud and tax evasion schemes. i now turn to mr maurel's report and the amendments adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. it is a very good report which recognises the directive as a major step forward in our fight and i welcome it very much. this report proposes a number of amendments. i shall briefly review some of them without going into detail, but first of all to emphasize that in many cases the commission fully agrees with the developments suggested. secondly, we believe that the objectives pursued by certain amendments would be better addressed in other initiatives. i would like to take two examples, if i may, mr rapporteur. many of you have called for the scope of this directive to be extended further and for it to be made even more ambitious. i would like to take particular note of the request to provide for an automatic exchange of information on the actual beneficiaries as from now. i share your view that fraudsters exploit our internal borders and that transparency must therefore extend beyond our borders. in its communication of 5 july, the commission therefore undertook to examine how crossborder access to member states' national information on the beneficial owners of trust companies could be secured. this issue will be covered by a separate proposal, as soon as more information is available on the g5 pilot project and taking into account international developments. in this context, it will also be necessary - this is my second comment - to take account of the outcome of the discussions on the proposal for a revision of the fourth anti-money laundering directive, which already includes the interconnection of registers of beneficial ownership in the european union. these remarks do not call into question most of the amendments but suggest an approach which, in the same spirit, with the same objective, may be a little different or which, in any case, uses complementary vehicles. our work is far from finished. in reality, it will never be, but we must be in the race because the imagination of those who want to cheat or those who practice aggressive tax planning does not stop. you know my personal commitment, my belief, is that this transparency revolution that we're in is just beginning. the commission is pleased, and i am personally pleased, with the european parliament's constant support and its determined action on these questions of transparency and the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. together, i believe we are really making a difference in a field where our citizens see both the need and the usefulness of europe. in these troubled times, there's not that many. all the more reason to go on and pull this thread to the end.
the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively and that the european union's financial instruments are used effectively. only then will we be able to protect our way of life and our welfare states. i'm sure you will. a good example of this is taxation. only by working together can we close the net around tax evaders and tax havens and tackle aggressive tax planning. in recent years, there has also seemed to be a growing awareness at the global level that there should at least be limits to the murderous tax competition that countries use to squeeze each other's revenues, but with trump as a future tax evader in chief and the british in brexit rules the waves mode, the international movement threatens to come to an abrupt end. that is why the european union must take up its responsibility and play its full part in fiscal cooperation and transparency, both at the global level and within our own internal market. today's draft law fills a small but important gap in existing tax cooperation between member states and will help to expose opaque intermediary structures, in the style of the panama papers. however, much more is needed to achieve real tax justice within the european union. i am thinking first of all of the common list of tax havens. it must not be a compromise, and it must be accompanied by real sanctions. secondly, i am thinking of the tax base for corporation tax. it must be harmonized within europe. thirdly, the race to the bottom on corporate tax rates must be stopped. president. - ladies and gentlemen, democracy is under pressure at all policy levels, both supranational and national, because of the increased inequality and division in our western societies. let us not, please, deceive ourselves into thinking that we are going to solve this discontent with the old national recipes of fiscal sovereignty whereby we shoot each other in the face until there is nothing left to redistribute and to make policy. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. i would like to stress above all that we all need to work together much more closely in europe. the priority of the european commission, but also of us as the european parliament, is now to draw up the common list of tax havens, to link sanctions to this list and to the ccctb. the next discussion that may ever take place may indeed be on the imposition of a limit, but then we must agree on that here in this house. the member states, which may decide unanimously, must also be able to agree on this.
it is not the first time that we have spoken in this house about tax evasion and tax avoidance. on the contrary, we have discussed it many times. it is my sincere belief that if we choose more transparency, more cooperation, more information sharing, we can fight that battle and we can win that battle. the finance ministers, including our finance minister johan van overtveldt, have already taken a decision on the matter before us. they have an agreement on this directive. this is an excellent thing, because from 2018 onwards the tax authorities will be able to obtain additional information, information from services that are engaged in this fight against money laundering. this is very important, because these are the very means, the very financing, which are used for major crimes, including terrorism. so it's great that the tax authorities will also be able to consult that information. finally, we have some questions about some of the last amendments tabled here in parliament, but this is a good proposal. this is an excellent case in principle.
in writing. ‒ this concerns the proposed approval of an agreement between europol and ukraine on operational and strategic cooperation, which includes the exchange of information, including personal data. such information could include expertise, general situational reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigations and methods of crime prevention, participation in training activities and the provision of advice and assistance in individual criminal investigations. according to europol, ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug and economic crime, trafficking and smuggling of human beings, and mobile organised criminal groups. i voted in favour of the report because this exchange of information will enable the eu, the member states and ukraine to combat and prevent organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime more effectively.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which recommends the approval of an operational and strategic agreement between ukraine and europol as it will facilitate and intensify the fight against terrorism and organised crime and contribute to strengthening international cooperation, particularly in the fight against trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ today the n-va delegation approved the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. we believe that sharing information, including personal data, is essential in the fight against organised crime. our party has always been a strong advocate of far-reaching operational cooperation with ukraine and we are therefore pleased that today a further step has been taken in that direction. ukraine is also a reliable and important political and economic partner of the eu in the eastern partnership.
in writing. parliament was consulted on the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between ukraine and europol. this new international agreement strengthens europol's cooperation with third countries, which is an essential tool for europol's work. i would nevertheless like to stress that the conclusion of this agreement should have been made after the entry into force of the new europol regulation scheduled for may 2017. the new regulation provides for enhanced guarantees, in particular in the area of data protection. moreover, after the entry into force of the new regulation, the european parliament will have more prerogatives in concluding such international agreements. the role of parliament in these matters must be defended. it is therefore important that the conclusion of any new agreement complies with the new rules which will be coming into force shortly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. the aim of this agreement is to support the action of the competent authorities in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime. this operational and strategic agreement provides for exchanges of information concerning, in particular, crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, etc.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with ukraine, as it would facilitate and intensify the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which by definition is international in nature, and contribute to strengthening international cooperation in the fight against trafficking in human beings and other relevant criminal matters. according to europol, ukraine is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug and economic crime, human trafficking and smuggling networks, and mobile organised crime groups. the exchange of information will enable the union, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime more effectively. in addition to the exchange of information, the agreement provides for the possibility of conducting training and crime prevention actions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because there is a clear operational need within europol for enhanced cooperation with ukraine. ukraine is an important partner of the eu in the eastern partnership, and security and the fight against crime are fundamental conditions for the achievement of the objectives of this partnership.
in writing. - in accordance with the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs, i have voted in favour of mr jalkh's immunity.
in writing. a complaint was lodged against mr jean-françois jalkh on the basis of statements contained in the fn brochure entitled practical guide for the elected municipal leader of the front national, posted on the official website of the national front federation on 30 november 2013, in which fn candidates elected municipal councillors were encouraged to give priority to the french in access to social housing. the latter is responsible for the words in the fn brochure, as director of publications of the national front and in charge of the editorial control of all websites of the federation. since mr jalkh was not a member of the european parliament at the time of the facts, since the charges against him are not related to his current office, since the actions in question do not concern opinions or votes expressed by the member of the european parliament in the exercise of his functions within the meaning of article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union, i have decided to vote in favour of the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr jalkh's immunity, so that the french judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, on the understanding that the incriminating statements (request to give preference to french people in access to social housing) have no direct link with mr jalkh's function as an mep, since the incriminating statements concern candidates for the office of municipal councillor for municipal elections. they are linked to his position as director of publications of the front national and are therefore not motivated by any desire to undermine his function as an mep.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalkh so that he can defend himself before the courts of his country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because jean-françois jalkh was not yet a member of the european parliament at the time of the events, 19 september and 30 november 2013, but the content of the vote was still available online on 23 june and 2 october 2014 to anyone who wished to read it.
in writing. ‒ in accordance with the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs, i voted in favour of mr jalkh's immunity.
in writing. the french minister of justice requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr j-fr jalkh as director of publications of the official website of the front national, following a complaint by the national bureau for vigilance against antisemitism (bnvca) , on the basis of statements by jean-marie le pen in an interview in which he allegedly made statements of public incitement to discrimination, hatred or violence. article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the eu states that members of the ep shall enjoy, in their national territory, the immunities accorded to members of the parliament of their state and article 8 of protocol no 7 states that members of the european parliament may not be sought, detained or prosecuted for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. as mr jean-françois jalkh had not taken up his duties as a member of the european parliament at the time of the facts and the charges brought against him were not related to his duties as a member of the european parliament but related to activities of a purely national or regional nature, i decided to vote in favour of the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the waiver of mr jalkh's immunity, so that the french judiciary can carry out its work, in strict respect of the rights of the defence, on the understanding that the incriminated statements (made by jean-marie le pen and relayed on the websites of the front national) have no direct link with mr jalkh's function as an mep. they are linked to his position as director of publications of the front national, responsible for the editorial control of all websites of the federation, and are therefore not motivated by any desire to undermine his function as an mep.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the request to waive the immunity of jean-françois jalkh so that he can defend himself before the courts of his country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the allegations are clearly separate from jean-françois jalkh's position as a member of the european parliament and concern rather activities in the purely national or regional sphere.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which stresses in particular the usefulness of measures other than the reduction of the allowable catch rates and the adjustment of fishing effort to achieve the objectives set in the long-term plan for the management of cod stocks. thus, member states should also give priority to the development and promotion of measures and incentives to avoid unwanted catches. financial support should also be provided for the use of appropriate selective measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to amend regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 to make it easier for cod fishermen in the north sea to land all their catches and not just cod. from 1 january 2017, the limits on the number of days a vessel can spend in a fishing zone will be removed and all obstacles to full compliance with the landing obligation will be removed. however, it should be noted that new multiannual plans for multi-species fisheries in various regions of the atlantic are being drawn up. the current regulation will therefore continue to apply, but only until the new multiannual plans for multi-species fisheries enter into force.
in writing. i welcome the approval by the european parliament of the amendment to the regulation establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. the updated regulation, which is now in line with the new common fisheries policy (cfp), will ensure that all catches are complied with. by removing the provisions on the calculation of fishing effort, the new regulation puts an end to incentives to discard catches at sea and thus allows fishermen to fully comply with the discard ban as required by the european fisheries policy. this is therefore a further step towards the responsible and sustainable management of our fisheries resources.
in writing. ‒ this afternoon, parliament approved the update of a 2008 regulation for a long-term plan for more rational fishing and better conservation of cod stocks. this fish, which is widespread in the atlantic and in our european waters, has been threatened by overfishing and intensive exploitation for years. europe accounts for 70% of the world cod market and the state of stocks in the north sea and ireland and west of scotland remains critical despite efforts already made. the amendments approved on tuesday will bring about a common method of calculating fishing effort for all member states and will relax catch limits while respecting scientific advice. the aim is to reduce the incentive to discard fish of lower value, which then have a low survival rate. the restriction of this practice should promote better management of the ichthyans and better use of exploited marine resources, and ensure the sustainability of a whole part of the european economy, since the fisheries and fish processing sector employs more than 350 000 people.
in writing. ‒ i voted for my colleague's text on cod stocks. this is an informal agreement concluded with the union ministers. cod fishermen in the north sea would be forced to land all their catch, not just cod. the agreement would remove the limits on the number of days a vessel can spend in a fishing zone in exchange for the implementation of a 'ban on the discarding of unwanted fish at sea'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the decision adopted is in line with the council's position.
in writing. ‒ the eu has already made considerable progress in recent years in improving tax transparency and enhancing cooperation between member states' tax authorities. recent changes to anti-money laundering legislation take account of the links between money laundering and tax evasion and the challenges of prevention. information leaked to the media, such as the 'panama papers', which exposed the large-scale secrecy of offshore funds, has highlighted areas where further action is needed. the report calls for tax offices across the eu to be given access to information on the actual owners of bank accounts, as well as account balances or income such as interest and dividends. the european parliament also wants to go further than the commission and calls for this information to be shared across the eu between tax authorities. access to that information by tax authorities ensures that they are better able to fulfil their supervisory duties. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is essential to further strengthen the transparency framework both at eu and international level.
in writing. ‒ this is the first commission directive to strengthen the fight against money laundering following the panama papers revelations. the purpose of the directive is to enable the tax authorities of the member states to have access to data relating to customers and final beneficiaries collected in the context of the fight against money laundering. i obviously agreed with that.
in writing. following the various scandals, including those linked to the panama papers, it was essential that such a report be adopted. the aim is to enable an automatic exchange of information on bank account holders between national tax authorities. access to registers containing all the actual owners of bank accounts, their income from interest and dividends, will make it easier to combat tax evasion and money laundering. after all, it is about better equipping those responsible for upholding the rule of law in the eu. but as we see in the context of the panama papers commission of inquiry, the fight does not stop there. it is imperative that cooperation between member states and coordination at european level continue to be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax evasion must be a priority for the european union and its member states for several reasons. first, tax evasion has a negative impact on the public finances of the member states, preventing them from implementing, in particular, strong social policies to reduce poverty. this is all the more unacceptable given that the european union is struggling to achieve the poverty reduction target it set itself in the europe 2020 strategy. this fight must also be a priority because the links between money laundering, terrorist financing, organised crime and tax evasion are real. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal, which obliges tax authorities in the eu to automatically share information on bank account holders such as bank balances or income from interest and dividends. it will now be important to measure the effectiveness of these measures and, if necessary, to make the necessary changes to limit as much as possible this fraud so harmful to our society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to information by tax authorities in relation to the fight against money laundering. for example, the author states in this update that the role of vehicles, accounts and companies established in tax havens and non-cooperative countries and territories is the common denominator of a wide range of transactions, usually detected a posteriori, which conceal tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering practices. this in itself should prompt political and diplomatic action to eradicate offshore centres globally.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the role of intermediaries, accounts and companies located in tax havens and non-cooperative jurisdictions appears to be a common denominator in a large number of operations, which are generally only discovered later and which hide tax fraud, capital flight and money laundering. this fact alone should give rise to political and diplomatic interventions aimed at eliminating offshore centres worldwide.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that there should be a focus on eliminating offshore centres at global level. this tax havens have been identified to be the major sources of tax fraud, tax evasion and money laundering practices. aggressive tax planning can only be addressed with an efficient information exchange system on an international level. i also believe that tax authorities need to have adequate information and communications technology in order to trace money-laundering activities. as a liberal i believe in the importance of transparency, and an automatic, mandatory and continuous exchange of information between authorities can only help to combat fraudulent behaviour of all kinds.
in writing. ‒ on the basis of the annual report of the european central bank, the european parliament shall draw up an annual report on the activities of the european system of central banks and on the monetary policy of the eurosystem. the main tasks of the escb, which include ensuring price stability and supporting the general economic policies of the union, are the central themes of the ecb's annual report and parliament's response to it. in addition, the main issues for the calendar year 2015 were the recovery of the euro area economy, the persistently low inflation rate, the effects of low interest rates and the ecb's decision to expand its asset purchase programme. i have agreed to the report, which also criticises the ecb's actions, and i hope that the ecb will take note of these criticisms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which gives a general assessment of the ecb's monetary policies, with clear references to the asset purchase programme (app), the main refinancing operations (mros) and the targeted longer-term refinancing operations (tltros i and ii). the report underlines that the euro area continues to suffer from high unemployment, excessively low inflation, large macroeconomic imbalances, including current account imbalances, and very low productivity growth as a consequence of lack of investment. this clear reference to the lack of investment is a point on which we have insisted. the report calls for the completion and full implementation of the banking union, the building of a capital markets union and a solution to the problem of non-performing loans to improve the effectiveness of the single monetary policy and mitigate the risks of a financial sector shock.
in writing. the situation remains worrying. the euro area continues to suffer from high unemployment, too low inflation, very low levels of productivity growth and a lack of structural reforms. in addition, there is a high level of public debt and an undercapitalised banking sector. it was therefore essential that the ecb continue the extraordinary measures in order to bring inflation back to the medium-term target of 2%. the ecb is now fulfilling its role of doing everything it can to defend the euro. but that alone will not be enough. we need to strengthen structural reforms in the eu, implement the banking union and create a capital markets union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the european central bank's annual report 2015. in this report, the european parliament underlines its fears that the ecb is downplaying the link between the central bank's provision of liquidity to banks and lending to the real economy. banks must take their share of responsibility in reviving our economy. the report also stresses the need for structural reforms, given the average performance of some euro area countries, particularly in terms of employment. on this point i am very clear: these reforms must not weaken the workers in any way. on the contrary, it is crucial to secure the careers of our european workers and to provide support for those who are out of work.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european central bank's annual report for 2015. the euro area continues to suffer from high unemployment, excessively low inflation and still significant macroeconomic imbalances, including excessive current account imbalances. in addition, it is faced with a very low level of productivity growth, which results in particular from the absence of investment - 10 percentage points below pre-crisis levels - a lack of structural reforms and weak domestic demand. the high level of public debt, and in particular the huge volume of non-performing loans in the banking sector, as well as a still undercapitalised banking sector in some member states, continue to fragment the euro area financial market, reducing the room for manoeuvre to support the most fragile economies. only sound fiscal policy and socially balanced structural reforms aimed at boosting productivity can bring about sustained positive economic development in these member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the ecb supports the framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation and the resulting lower capital requirements, which will revitalise both the securitisation markets and the financing of the real economy.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i support the role that the ecb has of defending the euro. i support the gradual implementation of the full banking union and i also believe that the distortion of competition has to be avoided. as a liberal i support transparency, so i believe that there has to be more information on asset purchases. in this time of economic and political turmoil, the credibility of the european central bank is fundamental in order to make the european economy work. i believe that the ecb has to analyse the different situations across member states before the implementation of new monetary policies, and thus analyse which member state relies more on banks or capital markets for the financing of the economy, in order to prevent bad impacts on those economies. i agree that single monetary policies alone cannot stimulate aggregate demand unless it is complemented by efficient fiscal policies and socially balanced reform programmes at member state level.
in writing. ‒ the objective of this report is to further develop the internal market for financial services for retail customers. it is important to identify the specific obstacles faced by consumers and businesses in using the internal market and to develop solutions to overcome those obstacles. digitalisation is providing important impetus that can help to remove such barriers to cross-border activities. i voted in favour of the draft because the establishment of an internal market for financial services for private customers has not yet progressed sufficiently. it is therefore of particular importance that the choice of supply, transparency and competition be improved across borders to the benefit of the european consumer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is the ep's contribution to the commission's green paper on retail financial services to prepare the action plan to be proposed in 2017, while supporting the commission's priority of identifying the specific obstacles faced by consumers and businesses and ways to overcome them. the report stresses the need to ensure good consumer protection through additional actions to empower consumers to make informed decisions, increase transparency in retail financial products and remove barriers, associated costs or product withdrawal. the report calls for full implementation of the various legislation already adopted (mortgage credit directive, payment accounts directive, payment services directive 2, mif regulation, insurance distribution directive) and calls on the commission to take further initiatives, including a proposal for an eu savings account, and to encourage financing of sustainable and green investments.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament today adopted by a large majority a report calling for more efforts to be made in the area of crossborder financial services for consumers. the european and national markets for pension, insurance and investment products, among others, are still too often characterised by fragmentation and lack of competition. this sometimes leads to consumers paying too high a price for their products or not being able to take full advantage of offers abroad. on the other hand, companies also face many obstacles when trying to find their way to the foreign customer. the report therefore calls on the commission to explore ways of encouraging cross-border demand and supply of consumer financial services. it is important that the commission should respect the social and fiscal powers of the member states. that is why the n-va meps voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i welcome the commission's green paper on retail financial services as it allows for a fruitful debate and public consultation of the various stakeholders involved, which will lead to better products, more choice and more opportunities for consumers and businesses. the green paper seeks to identify how to improve the supply, transparency and competition in the retail financial services sector for the benefit of european consumers, and how to enable firms to offer these financial services directly in other countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the european commission's green paper to combat the fragmentation of retail financial products. it is crucial to defend european consumers, in particular by ensuring that the products offered to them are transparent, simple and cost-effective. i had supported the amendment calling for the creation of a european consumer protection authority, which i considered to be a step towards better consumer protection. i therefore regret that this amendment was not adopted, but i have nevertheless decided to support this text, which contains some interesting elements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this green paper. we have to make sure that everyone is included. financial exclusion is a serious and widespread problem in europe. life becomes very complicated for those who do not have access to at least the most essential financial services. we need to keep the perspective of inclusion in mind in everything we do in the retail financial services sector. a general and permanent objective must be to reduce exclusion. the new payment account directive, due to be fully implemented in the autumn, will give every consumer the right to have a basic payment account. while this is a big step in the right direction, it is far from enough. a much greater effort is needed. we have a lot of work to do. building a functioning single market for retail financial services is a huge project. at the same time, it is a worthwhile project. this is clearly a case where the european union is creating real added value.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because a european market for retail financial services is only conceivable if it offers real added value to consumers by ensuring effective competition, accessibility and consumer protection, particularly in relation to products that are genuinely necessary for participation in economic life.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i support the improvement of advice and information to investors. in my opinion it is important that the commission comes up with concrete proposals on eliminating identified obstacles and barriers to an internal retail finance market. as a liberal i believe in transparency, so i support the call on the commission to increase the consumer transparency framework, trying to reach a supervisory convergence between member states. the establishment of a european consumer protection authority can help in this task. i believe that there is a need to analyse the potentials of giving companies a greater regulatory flexibility in order to experiment and innovate, without disregarding consumer protection and safety.
in writing. ‒ this parliament resolution calls for eu member states to step up their security and defence cooperation in the face of an increase in hybrid threats, threats to energy security, cybersecurity or terrorism, paving the way for a european defence union. the resolution calls for spending 2% of gdp on defence, the deployment of multinational armed forces and the establishment of an eu headquarters for the planning and conduct of joint operations. the european council is also called upon to take a leading role in the design of a common union defence policy and to provide additional funding for its implementation. the house also called for a review of the common security and defence policy (csdp) and for closer cooperation between the eu and nato. i support the idea of extended union defence cooperation. the current developments present us with security policy challenges which we can only tackle effectively together.
in writing. ‒ given the different situations facing europe in its neighbourhood, closer cooperation between member states in defence matters is necessary. i therefore endorsed this report which encourages the european council to be the driving force behind the progressive definition of the edu and to provide financial resources for this purpose. the european council is invited to take concrete steps towards the harmonisation and standardisation of the union's armed forces in order to facilitate cooperation between armed forces under the umbrella of a new european defence union. parliament is urged to set up a full committee on security and defence to monitor the implementation of permanent structured cooperation.
in writing. today, european security is increasingly under threat. the surveillance of our borders raises many problems and uncertainties. the union is not equipped to deal with this range of defence threats. the last thirty years have been characterized by constant cuts in the defence budgets of the ems and occasional cooperation. there is no community of destiny without common defence. there can be no foreign policy without a defence policy of the union commensurate with its economic capacity. we need to be more coherent and bring our military forces together. we need to implement a new approach that takes into account the profoundly changed security environment and make the union a more important player in the field of security. europe can no longer rely on the us strategic shield. it must develop a defence and be the armed arm of nato. according to the european parliament's study on the cost of non-europe 2014-2019, the potential efficiency gains from better coordination at european level on security and defence could reach €26 billion.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted 369 to 255 with 70 abstentions to ask the council this afternoon for the means to develop a genuine european defence policy. the current geopolitical situation, the terrorist threats, but also the cost of non-europe in this area (€26 billion per year) make a defence union more necessary than ever. a recent survey shows that 66% of europeans (63% of belgians) want the union to do more in this area. with three weeks to go until a european summit on this issue, the report voted on today gives very clear directions to the council. member states should devote at least 2% of their gdp to defence, and establish multinational forces and a european headquarters to plan and command crisis management operations. equally important, especially in terms of employment and economies of scale, is the creation of the conditions for a military schengen area and the development of a european defence industry. the union must also work to better complement nato's action, and be ready to take its place when it does not wish to engage. all this is essential and should lead to a thorough review of the common security and defence policy.
in writing. ‒ a common security and defence policy (csdp) is high on the european agenda, but it is difficult to reach agreement on it between the different member states and political families. each report on this subject is a lengthy list of all the matters that have a direct or indirect bearing on military or defence matters. it's like a letter to santa claus. we are now seeing the outlines of a european army emerge, and then the desire to increase the defence budget so that there is money to invest in drones or military research. however, there is a constant lack of a clear vision of defence and security for the outside world or for foreign embassies. it is therefore difficult to vote in favour of such a report. the green group wants a common security and defence policy to focus on humanitarian missions, peacekeeping and crisis management rather than on warfare and defending our homeland. instead of increasing the defence budget, we should look at how we can use the 200 billion euros a year more efficiently: by joint procurement, joint military research and, above all, by increasing transparency in the 'military market' simply by respecting european public procurement rules. but this is in the deaf ears of many.
in writing. - i voted for the paet report. i also think that european defence is a good thing to bring about more coherence and also to enable some member states to reduce their military budgets in favour of an efficient union army.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the security situation in and around europe has deteriorated significantly over the past few years, posing difficult and unprecedented challenges that no country and no organisation can tackle alone.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that in europe a stronger security must be ensured. i agree with the idea of creating a recurrent council-type meeting between the ministers of defence from each member state, in order to sustain and coordinate better the defence union. given the recent terrorist attacks, citizens in europe are feeling more threatened than before. that is why the creation of a european defence union becomes very urgent. the creation of this union could also benefit smes, europe’s defence industry and capabilities, allowing positive consequences for growth and jobs. i believe that key eu stakeholders and companies will have to be involved in the european defence industry. since i am a strong supporter of research, i support the plan of creating an eu defence research programme. technological innovation is fundamental in this context in order to reach a more efficient and effective use of the defence and security budgets of each member state.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this report, which recalls that the transport of passengers by water in the context of coastal or maritime navigation represents a great potential in view of the available infrastructure and is an important factor in strengthening cohesion between the various regions of the european union. the commission is invited to finance better organised and more efficient integrated transport service projects to ensure the efficient and intermodal management of passenger transport.
in writing. europe's geography is characterised by relatively large bodies of water, which offer extraordinary prospects for water transport. whether ferry or cruise ship, they play an important role in the mobility of eu citizens. as many as 400 million people pass through eu ports every year, 120 million of whom are transported between ports in the same member state. however, the waterborne passenger transport sector faces multiple challenges and needs in terms of infrastructure, environment, operational processes, safety and port-city links. i therefore welcome this report, which aims to place greater emphasis on the environmental sustainability, safety and security, quality and accessibility of services of passenger transport by water in the transport policy agenda of the union and its member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on exploiting the potential of passenger water transport as passenger water transport plays a key role in enhancing the sustainability and efficiency of the european transport sector. improving the use of available capacity for passenger transport by water would reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but also improve air quality and transport services. the development of innovative technologies based on solar and wind energy would also make ships cleaner and more economical. moreover, the measures provided for in this legislation would help to revitalise the tourist potential of many regions of europe. finally, this legislation also provides for the enhancement of the safety of passengers carried by ships by ensuring that these ships meet the common safety standards of the union.
in writing. - i voted for the report. while water transport is already one of the most sustainable modes of transport, it is possible to make ships cleaner and more energy-efficient through investment in research and innovative technologies, for example in solar and wind energy, shore-based electricity and alternative fuels, while applying the principle of technological neutrality. this goes hand in hand with the availability and use of union resources, such as the cohesion, structural and regional funds, interreg, horizon 2020, the esm, the ten-t and the efsi.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because in recent years there has been a trend towards intensive development of vessels for various waters, for example river and sea vessels, which meet the requirements for seagoing vessels and can also sail in shallow water.
in writing. ‒ this report aims to promote the effectiveness of development cooperation. it calls on all development actors to build on the commitments of the paris to busan agreements to make their efforts as effective as possible towards the ambitious goals of the 2030 agenda, while further promoting the optimal use of public and private development resources. as the world's largest donor of development aid, the eu has a particular responsibility to improve the effectiveness of eu aid worldwide and its accountability. i share the rapporteur's view that the eu should take a leading role in the global effort to advance the development effectiveness agenda and ensure that transparency, good governance and the rule of law remain a key concern in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ the report, which i endorsed, recalls that aid effectiveness principles have made a significant contribution to progress towards the millennium development goals in many countries, but that progress remains uneven. it also stressed that official development assistance could help to implement the principle of democratic ownership of aid by the countries concerned. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the threat of nuclear power. these are based in particular on sufficient funding for development policy, which must be put at the service of poverty eradication and the promotion of the sustainable development goals. but to do that, donors must meet their commitments, because there is a gap of more than two trillion dollars in aid to developing countries to meet the millennium development goals. the report also stresses the need to improve the transparency of development aid and to combat corruption in recipient countries, which poses a serious threat to democratic legitimacy and public support for development aid in donor countries.
in writing. ‒ today the n-va delegation voted to increase the effectiveness of development cooperation. we are aware that valuable resources are being lost at many levels, and we therefore call for less capital-intensive and more efficient development cooperation. however, in order to achieve this, our delegation believes it is essential that all cash flows, both direct and indirect, are clearly identified. we can only look for economies of scale and other optimisations if we have a complete picture of the financial support to all the countries concerned. our party therefore believes that the oda (official development assistance) calculations should not be limited to direct cash flows but should also disclose indirect cash flows.
in writing. the european union is the largest contributor of development aid. by voting in favour of enhancing the effectiveness of development cooperation, we are once again demonstrating the importance we attach to our commitment to contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) as set out in the 2030 agenda. we recognize that the eradication of all forms of poverty requires first of all a cooperative approach with the least developed countries, which have the primary responsibility for achieving these goals. our commitment in busan reminds us that the effectiveness of this cooperation also depends on its inclusive aspect, involving international and regional organisations, but also national bodies (parliaments, civil society and the private sector). this should be strengthened by mobilising more development actors who are fully capable of recognising their responsibility to improve development in an environment of peace, respect for human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ with just a few days to go until the conference of the global partnership for effective development cooperation, parliament sent a clear message of support for this oecd initiative. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. founded in 2011, this forum brings together the different actors (beneficiaries, donors, the private sector, civil society) to boost development policies. while welcoming the efforts made, the report stresses that civil society and the private sector are key partners, that transparency is paramount and that national policies on development aid in recipient countries are needed. the text stresses in particular the 2005 commitment of member states to devote at least 0.7% of their gross national income to development by 2015. although the eu was the world's largest donor of development aid last year with €68 billion, only five countries actually met this target: sweden (1.4%), luxembourg (0.93%), denmark (0.85%), the netherlands (0.76%) and the united kingdom (0.71%). so we're way off the mark.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of enhancing the effectiveness of development cooperation, on the eve of the high-level meeting of the global partnership for effective development cooperation, to be held in nairobi next week. the european union, a true pioneer of development, must strengthen existing strategies and orient them towards tangible results by complementing national actions. inclusive partnership, transparency and mutual accountability are 'driving forces for achieving the sustainable development goals'. we need to achieve our commitment target and ensure the quality of the assistance provided and the monitoring of the actions undertaken, in view of the implementation of the 2030 agenda. this requires relying on the national strengths of the countries, but also involving civil society and all frontline actors. it also requires respect for governance, democratic values and fundamental rights.
‒ the european union is a leader in development cooperation. while much good has been done in this area, more can be done to increase the effectiveness of aid and development, both at eu and global level. by focusing on greater involvement of national parliaments, civil society and citizens in the countries receiving aid, their democratic input is increased and the way to greater autonomy is opened. the global partnership for effective development cooperation (gpedc), which oversees the busan agreements, is meeting at the end of november to take the lead in improving development cooperation. the rapporteur believes that the success of this meeting depends on the emergence of new ideas for sustainable development and the transparency of the concrete contribution of each participant. we welcome the report, but the european union is losing sight of important principles by increasingly spending development funds on the reception of refugees. this expenditure is not a structural and sustainable solution that contributes to socioeconomic development. the financial capacity for development cooperation is also declining, which makes the seriousness of the matter very clear. we regret this very much and for that reason we shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ i spoke in favour of this report when it was voted. the european union, as the world's largest donor of development aid, has a particular responsibility to improve aid effectiveness and accountability around eu support around the world. beyond this, the union should spearhead global efforts to advance development effectiveness and ensure that transparency, good governance and the rule of law in developing countries remain at the heart of concerns.
in writing. ‒ i voted to emphasise the encouragement of national development aid policies by the parliaments of recipient countries, to ensure greater accountability of donors and recipient countries, including local authorities, to improve the financial management of public funds and absorption capacity, to eliminate corruption and all forms of fragmentation of aid, to make tax systems more efficient and to improve the conditions for eligibility for budgetary aid and to become less dependent on development aid in the longer term.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, for a moment i thought mr kamall was saying let’s merge the brexit and the turkish files, but i do not think that is what he was saying. ms mogherini, you are saying that we need to know what the turkish authorities want. i think we all know what the turkish authorities want. they want accession to the european union; they want a visa-free regime as quickly as possible; they want additional money, because of the deal we did on migration; and they certainly want no interference and no criticism from our side on what is happening, this shift to an autocratic system in ankara and in turkey. that is what they want. but let’s not fool ourselves anymore. we all know that this is not in compliance with european values, that it is not in compliance with european principles and that it shows, i would say, a lack of courage not to see that president erdoğan is for the moment closing the opposition media, jailing journalists and at the same time also criminalising a number of members of the turkish parliament. that is the reality. so instead of pretending ‘oh! we still have an open channel if we continue these talks’, i think in such circumstances we are fooling ourselves, we are fooling our citizens and also fooling the turkish citizens – because many turkish citizens think that europe is their future and they do not find a future in these circumstances with a regime that is becoming more and more autocratic. so instead of continuing the illusion of accession talks with a regime that is becoming more and more authoritarian, i think we would lose credibility to do so, and you have heard it, there is in my opinion in this house, unanimity – or close to unanimity, there is never unanimity in a house such as the european parliament – but nearly i think, a broad majority, to say you have to freeze the accession talks for the moment. you have put a number of conditions on the restarting of these accession talks once turkey complies with them. that brings me to the broader picture because, let’s be honest, there is a broader picture. something is happening in our neighbourhood. it was solana i think who said in 2003 ‘well, everything is okay in our neighbourhood, there is a ring of friends around europe’. i can tell you today that it is more like a ring of autocrats around europe – erdoğan, putin... i am not going so far as to put trump on that little list, but they are all doing one thing: bashing europe, bashing our values, bashing and fighting against our european democracy. let’s be honest, let’s face it, you have to face it, we have to face it: what is happening is that erdoğan is against every turkish movement in whatever country of the european union which is not in line with him. putin is directly financing even groups here in this parliament – always nationalists, populists and anti-europeans. and let’s face it, mr trump is not much better than that. his most important strategic advisor, bannon, wants to launch an extreme right-wing website – breitbart – he has done it already in the us but he wants to do it also in paris and berlin to influence the german elections, and to influence the french elections. mr trump even wants to take over the task of her majesty the queen by appointing the future ambassadors of britain. mr farage is not here, but it would be interesting if he could tell us if that is ‘taking back control’ in britain. i think one clown in washington is more than enough. we do not need more than that, dear colleagues. (applause)so, in a certain sense ms mogherini, that is what i hope, with the foreign ministers and with the leaders, and you are aware of this. there is a fifth column active in europe for the moment and the fifth column are not the refugees coming in from syria, as le pen and farage are saying. no, the fifth column are the cronies of a number of autocratic leaders, be it putin, be it erdoğan – i hope it will not be trump tomorrow – who want to undermine the european union. it is time to fight back and make it not happen. and if our european leaders do not do it, then we in the european parliament should do it. i think it is now or never. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer is "blue cardboard". i have always been a strong supporter of turkey's entry into europe, because i have always felt that european civilization should not be defined on the basis of religion, but on the basis of our values and other criteria. however, i'm not mad. i also see what's happening in turkey. what i see is not a change in my position, but a change in the position of your group which is beginning to have a lot of sympathy for mr erdoğan, because the more authoritarian he becomes, the more you find him a good ally for the future.
enough, enough, enough! i'm not going to do this. it is the cry of turkish-european associations defending minorities, democracy and human rights in turkey. it is the cry they sent me following the attempted arson last week in brussels of the kurdish institute, an ngo which has repeatedly called for dialogue and a peaceful solution to the kurdish problem. the underlying reasons are, of course, all too well known: the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in detention for more than two years. erdogan's turkey is clearly no longer a democracy, and he is abundantly demonstrating this at home and abroad. enough, enough, enough! i'm not going to do this. it should also be the conclusion of mrs mogherini and of you, commissioner hahn. but i'm afraid i didn't hear that. you're not going to get much further than expressing your concern. i don't believe in it anymore. it is not possible that a state whose leader has already thrown overboard the principles of freedom, democracy and tolerance can continue to have a view to eu membership. stop the negotiations and the funding. or are we throwing our basic principles overboard altogether? (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. ma'am, you didn't listen very well. i didn't say we had to break all ties. i have only said that we must finally stop the accession negotiations. it has to be done with the waving of an eu membership card. stop the negotiations and stop the funding. it's the only language this dictator understands.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. i think it is an important moment to speak here today again about israel and palestine, because there is clearly a deterioration of the situation on the ground. moreover, and this has been the case here in the plenary all afternoon, i think that with the election of trump as the new president of the united states we can expect a change in the middle east as well. mrs mogherini, i would like to ask you a few very specific questions. in may of this year we had a very long debate here and you promised me that you would advocate the reimbursement of the european union projects that have been destroyed. my colleague jean arthuis was there and was able to make a number of observations. i was always taught: if you break something that belongs to someone else, you have to pay for it. how far are you on that process and will israel indeed pay back our projects that it has destroyed? are you also prepared to present conclusions on the middle east peace process to the european council in december? i think it is time to put things together and i hope you can make a statement on this. we can then support a common position on a resolution on settlements later on in the un security council. finally, mrs mogherini, we have been receiving reports from our diplomats on the ground in east jerusalem for several years. however, we must note that very little has been done with these reports, that the implementation of these recommendations is not really that far along. my question is very specific: what are we gonna do with it? will we work on implementing those recommendations with regard to east jerusalem? mrs. mogherini, i have always admired you. i think you do a lot of good in foreign policy, but here i would like to ask you: you bet. make sure this conflict finally belongs in the history books.
i should like to begin by thanking mr paşcu for his excellent report. i am very pleased, mrs mogherini, with your concrete proposals and the steps you want to take in this european defence union and with the enthusiasm with which you have defended them here today. what i do not understand, however, is why you do not want to go one step further. personally, i really think there is a momentum to make the leap, the leap to a european army, the leap to integrated forces. - why? - why? we have brexit, the election of trump, the declarations related to nato, the budgetary constraints in the national armies. that is why i think we should take the eurobarometer report seriously. in it, 75 percent of europeans said: we want a european defence in belgium, for example, we have commissioned a study which shows that 26 billion euros would be saved annually if we took the first step towards european defence. mrs mogherini, you have my support. use this momentum, take that next step and ensure our security with a european defence.
i receive the newsletters from the eu's east stratcom task force in my mailbox twice a week and if you read them, you will realise how far and how sophisticatedly our open society is being targeted by a kremlin policy of damage. the goal: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. i have seen too often with sad eyes how the kremlin's disinformation is also seeping into our low countries through social networks and other channels. providing an answer to that information war is critical to our security. the strategic communications task force has managed to identify misinformation with a limited team of people and respond to it with accurate information. the report by mr fotyga rightly calls for the task force to be strengthened, because i believe we also need to understand and tackle the disinformation and radicalisation methods of is. my government started a project last year to counter isis propaganda. a high-performance stratcom task force for the south could certainly better equip us for that.
madam president, i also welcome the commission's initiative. it is an important initiative because it is aimed at meeting a huge challenge, namely that of the 66 million people in europe who have not completed secondary education. the challenge is that, even today, one in five europeans has difficulty reading and writing. these are some very interesting numbers. but most importantly, behind these numbers, there are human lives, people in precarious situations, people in financial difficulty, people who are isolated, who are experiencing all this in their flesh. it is therefore very important to adapt the training courses by giving full value to training and experience. the guarantee of competence initiated by the commission must first strengthen basic competences. it must be a hand out to those who are currently excluded from the labour market. how did you do that? by offering them this very personalized learning, access to training, the possibility of progressing towards a recognized certification. we cannot afford to leave people on the sidelines and it is essential that those who have not followed the most natural or obvious pathways are given a second chance to exist in our society. this is a major responsibility for the member states and i would like to emphasize again the commission's initiative in doing so, which is building bridges to ensure that the europe of tomorrow is a more humane europe.
i would like to welcome the european deaf union, present here in the visitors' gallery. for a long time, sign interpreters were considered to be helpers of deaf people. often the family of the deaf person acted as interpreter, even during official business. this is still the case in many eu countries, but the situation is improving and sign language interpreting is gradually being recognised as a full-fledged profession. this joint resolution builds on previous european parliament resolutions of 1988 and 1998 and the input of deaf and interpreting organisations. it is also the result of the conference i organised in brussels on 28 september 2016, where for the first time all 24 eu languages were spoken and 31 eu mother tongues were used. sign language interpreters are indispensable to ensure the equal participation of sign language users. the charter of fundamental rights does not allow for discrimination on the basis of disability. we can only do this by working on accessibility and reasonable adjustments. i also refer to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which has been ratified by both the eu and most eu member states. everyone in this house knows that interpreters have a demanding job. this certainly applies to sign interpreters. they therefore deserve a fair and equal remuneration for their work. there is still a serious shortage of interpreters in all eu member states. on average, there is one sign language interpreter available for 160 deaf people in the eu. but there are wide differences between the various member states, from one interpreter for every eight deaf people to one for every 2 500. i mean, imagine that. providing training and education opportunities for future interpreters is a top priority. within the eu institutions, there is an increasing demand for interpreters because of deaf citizens. given the lack of interpreters in the member states, i would like to ask the commission how it intends to tackle this problem. are there any plans to employ sign interpreters, taking into account that sign interpreters are also part of the international association of conference interpreters (iaci)? this joint resolution, which will be voted on tomorrow, is an important milestone for disabled people and especially for deaf sign language users. it is the first time that the focus has been on sign language interpreters as a professional group. after 20 years, it is high time to take the next step and pay attention to the professionalisation of the profession of sign interpreting, and the eu institutions should set an example in this regard.
poor air quality causes an estimated 400 000 premature deaths per year in the european union. that is unacceptable. the new standards we are voting on today should lead to a halving of this number and it is indeed our responsibility to protect eu citizens from health risks. they expect us to. according to the eurobarometer, a large majority of europeans, 79%, want the european union to take action on this issue. joint european agreements are needed to tackle the deadly problem of air pollution in a structural way. air pollution does indeed know no bounds. and this applies in the first place to densely populated and industrialized regions such as my own country, such as flanders with dutch, german and french industrial centres nearby. about 45 percent of the air pollution in my country comes from our neighbouring countries. so it's either take responsibility together or drown together. and mr cañete, commissioner, of course you are right, everything can always be improved and the level of ambition was a little higher for us too, but i think that mrs girling has reached the best possible agreement and i will also support it fully. it is essential that member states now make effective use of these enhanced standards. there is no time to lose, as any improvement in air quality has an immediate positive impact on public health. again, that's exactly what people expect from us.
mr president, air pollution is thousands of tonnes of sulphur, methane, nitrogen and fine particulate matter that are released into the atmosphere and that kill 8 million people a year (400 000 in europe alone). that is the scale of the challenge we face. the glass is not full, of course, but the directive we are finally voting on this afternoon upgrades our ambitions for 2001, sets new ceilings and introduces a new pollutant. only one, unfortunately. the council has completely ruled out methane, where parliament has been 'sensitive' to our farmers' demands concerning ruminant emissions, which still account for a quarter of total methane emissions. i would like to ask the commission two questions in this connection. can you confirm, commissioner, that you will take immediate action to reduce this pollution by methane in other tools, which is also a greenhouse gas 23 times more warming than co2? what about the controls and sanctions also against those member states which did not and would not respect the new ceilings?
i didn't go with you this time, and i'm sorry. i thought: it's going to be a regular cop that paris is going to implement. but i think that the election in the united states has made it a particularly political cop and i have received very good signals about that. because that's what a lot of people have said, and we want to support that absolutely: the dynamic that was created in paris, which was not broken at cop 22, despite the elections in the united states. and that momentum needs to be worked on. and then it is extremely important that europe not only retains its historic leadership but also strengthens it and seeks new allies, for example by looking to china. and that means that we must also show that leadership in our own policies, and i support what mr turmes has said on this: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty of rome. but it is also a task for ourselves, as has been said a few times before: we are in the last row in parliament to negotiate within envi about the ets. there too, ladies and gentlemen, we must be as ambitious as possible. we have to negotiate with the member states. we always know that this gives rise to further dilution of the compromises. so set the bar high, show the rest of the world that we're not gonna let our heads hang down. but, and i actually agree with peter liese, i find that very encouraging and i think we really need to think, across party lines, in the coming weeks and months, how we're going to solve that. if, i say if, the united states somehow withdraws from paris, then we must not be naive. we must be ambitious and at the same time make sure that we protect our industry. if we're asking our industry to make a big effort, which we have to do to make sure that we're addressing co2, we also have to make sure that we're looking in a good way at how we can protect ourselves against countries leaving the paris agreement. and i think we have to think about what is the best way to do that, and that of course also has to do with a new vision of trade in the future.
in writing. - i approved that point.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the calendar of the european parliament's partsessions for 2018. this calendar allows members of parliament the time they need to meet citizens and raise their concerns in this house.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposed timetable, which is broadly in line with our requests to carry out our work in an optimal and more efficient way.
in writing. ‒ this is a european parliament resolution seeking an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed agreement between canada and the european union on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta). i share the view of my colleagues that there is legal uncertainty as to whether the proposed agreement is compatible with the treaties, in particular article 19 of the treaty on european union and articles 49, 54, 56, 267 and 340 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and i would be very happy to ask the court of justice for an opinion on the compatibility of the agreement envisaged with the treaties. i regret that there was no majority in parliament for this request. i am not going to go into the details of the agreement, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make this agreement more effective.
in writing. ‒ despite the clear improvements achieved by wallonia and belgium's commitment to seek an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility of the ics with the european treaties, it seemed appropriate to me that the european parliament itself, as the representative of 500 million europeans, should ask the court of justice to verify the compatibility of this trade agreement between the union and canada and in particular the settlement of commercial disputes in the field of investment (ics) with the european treaties. i therefore supported the resolution with that request. the assembly, however, rejected this request.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the request by 89 members for a delay to seek the opinion of the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) on the compatibility of the provisions of the eu-canada free trade agreement (ceta) with the law of the european treaties. i consider it unthinkable to block indefinitely an agreement negotiated for 7 years, which has been validated by the governments of the member states representing more than 500 million europeans and whose legal compatibility with european law has already been the subject of three analyses which confirmed that in this case ceta has no impact on our legal framework, on the union's competences or on our constitutional rights. however, i am anxious to respect the recently reached intra-belgian agreement and in particular the possibility for the belgian government to question the cjeu on the precise point of the compatibility of the ics with the european treaties. i believe it is in everyone's interest to clarify this point once and for all.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation voted against the resolution requesting the court of justice to give its opinion on the compatibility of the ceta agreement with the treaties of the european union. the text of this resolution is simply designed to delay and postpone decision-making as much as possible. our delegation does not wish to follow this logic and prefers to follow the normal parliamentary route. parliament was involved by the council in the consent procedure on ceta. the procedure provides members with the opportunity to discuss and learn about the various elements of the trade agreement before approving or rejecting it and starting any provisional application. we would also like to point out that, as regards the main concern, investment protection and dispute settlement (ics), belgium has indicated in its declaration to the ceta agreement that it will take the matter to the court of justice to ensure that ics is compatible with the european treaties. moreover, any provisional application will not affect these provisions.
in writing. i welcome the rejection of a motion for a resolution requesting the opinion of the court of justice on the compatibility of the agreement between canada and the european union (ceta) with the european treaties. the european parliament's plenary session on 23 november rejected this request by a large majority. in reality, it was a political maneuver by a few groups in parliament (greens, communists, far right) whose aim was to block the procedure for ratification of the agreement by the european parliament first, and then by the parliaments of the member states. another reason for voting against the request for referral to the court is that it is far removed from the intra-belgian agreement. whereas the compromise reached between the federal government and the walloon government limits the request to the new arbitration procedure (known as the ics), the request by the 89 members of the european parliament concerned the entire content of ceta. ceta has already been declared compatible with the european treaties on three occasions: by the constitutional court in karlsruhe on 13 october, and by the legal services of the commission and parliament. there is no question of blocking sine die an agreement negotiated for seven years, which has been ratified by the governments of the member states representing more than 500 million europeans.
in writing. ‒ common sense prevailed this afternoon over the canada-european union economic and trade agreement (ceta). the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet and to use it to make their own decisions. in reality, it was a political maneuver by a few political groups (mainly greens, communists, pro-sovereignty groups) whose aim was to block the procedure for ratification of the agreement by the european parliament first, and then by the parliaments of the member states. another legitimate reason for rejecting this request for referral to the court of justice of the european union is that it is very far from the intra-belgian agreement. whereas the compromise reached between the federal government and the walloon government limits the request to the new arbitration procedure (known as the ics), the request by the 89 members of the european parliament concerned the entire content of ceta. however, on three occasions, the constitutional court in karlsruhe (on 13 october) and the legal services of the commission and parliament have already stated that ceta is in conformity with the european treaties. it is now to be hoped that the european parliament will be able to ratify this 'win-win' agreement, which has been negotiated for seven years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution to bring ceta under the control of the court of justice of the european union, as it seems essential that an agreement of such importance offers all the guarantees of compatibility with european law. many judges expressed reservations, in particular on the legal basis of the dispute settlement mechanism. it is therefore imperative to seek the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on the compatibility of this agreement with european law. i therefore regret that the majority of members did not express their support for this legitimate position.
in writing. ‒ we are 89 meps asking the court of justice of the european union to rule on the conformity and legality of the ceta treaty. our request was put to the vote on wednesday. i voted in favour of this request because i believe that it is normal and responsible to obtain all the guarantees for respect for the rights of european citizens!
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i believe that there is no legal uncertainty as to whether the proposed agreement is compatible with the treaties.
in writing. – i voted against this motion for a resolution since i believe that ceta is an agreement that will strongly benefit europe and its citizens. i don’t think there is any legal uncertainty as to whether the proposed agreement is compatible with the eu treaties mentioned in the motion, since ics will not be part of the provisional application of this treaty. thus there is no need to ask the intervention of the court of justice. we should now look forward on benefiting from this new international trade agreement and try to make it as more efficient and reliable as possible. canada is a country with a strong economy and with a lot of values in common with european ones, so europe will benefit a lot from the trade agreement.
in writing. ‒ in the light of the vw scandal and the issue of real-world emissions, air quality is more topical than ever. air pollution has a high environmental and health impact. poor air quality causes about 400 000 premature deaths in the eu every year. parliament therefore voted in favour of new rules setting national emission reduction commitments for the pollutants sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), volatile organic compounds other than methane (nmvoc), ammonia (nh3) and fine particulate matter (particles less than 2.5 microns in diameter). the proposed stricter limits are a step in the right direction. the aim is to reduce the impact of air pollution on public health by about 50% by 2030, which is certainly a reasonable goal.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which proposes to limit national emissions of certain air pollutants. this should aim in particular at air quality levels that do not result in major adverse impacts or risks to human health and the environment. this requires member states to commit themselves to reducing their emissions to more ambitious levels by 2030, to protecting the health of vulnerable groups or, of course, to supporting the transition to investments in clean and efficient technologies through tax incentives. the commission should facilitate access to finance to ensure that measures can be adopted to meet the objectives set by the directive.
despite the fact that progress has been made in recent years in the fight against air pollution, air quality in europe is still a matter of concern. moreover, despite some good measures, road traffic, industry, electricity generation, household emissions and the burning of fossil fuels continue to cause significant damage to the environment and to the health of citizens. according to the latest report by the european environment agency, in 2013, particulate matter was responsible for more than 400 000 premature deaths in the european union. nitrous oxide caused another 70,000 additional deaths. because air pollution also leads to additional health care costs and poorer agricultural yields, the annual cost of this is estimated to be at least eur 330 billion. that is why i fully support the european parliament's decision to significantly tighten up the standards by 2030 and to introduce stricter and binding national emission ceilings for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, volatile organic compounds and ammonia. the introduction of stricter emission standards is a major step forward that could save many lives and significantly improve the quality of life of people in cities and densely populated areas.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, i had already voted in favour of the european parliament's position on this directive aimed at reducing air pollution and thus improving air quality in the european union by 2030. the compromise text negotiated between parliament and the council is not perfect. it is in any case less ambitious than the european parliament's initial position. but despite this lowered ambition, i have chosen to support this revision because i am convinced that it will make important progress in public health by significantly reducing the number of premature deaths related to air pollution in the european union.
in writing. ‒ 500,000 europeans die prematurely each year from air pollution-related diseases. we voted to call into question national ceilings which we considered too low for the major air pollutants. even if it is not a breath of fresh air, it is still a breath of fresh air in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because this directive should also contribute to reducing the health-related costs of air pollution in the union by improving the quality of life of eu citizens and promoting the transition to a green economy.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because a possibility is offered to each member state to contribute to air quality with specific and defined measures. to protect the health of citizens and the environment, it is important to reduce emissions of mercury. i believe that in order to improve air quality, each relevant sector should be addressed such as agriculture, industry, road transport and shipping. it’s important that each member state takes into account the impact that this kind of measures will have on small and medium enterprises. i believe that each member state should update the commission providing information on the progress towards achieving their national emission reduction commitments. fiscal incentives can play a big role in shifting investments towards clean and efficient technologies for a more sustainable production. i think that the different needs and difficulties in tackling air pollution have to be analysed in advance for each national geographic region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the parliament reiterated that banks must be properly capitalised in order to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid a repetition of the massive bailouts seen during the crisis. it stresses the need to develop appropriate regulation of the shadow banking sector in order to guarantee fair competition and financial stability.
in writing. the 2008 financial crisis was largely triggered by unreasonable lending that got out of hand. the dominance of the short term and of the return at any cost has penetrated the financial market. this has diverted finance from its original purpose of turning savers' deposits into long-term investments. when the financial bubble burst, some banks did not have the liquidity to cover their losses. following the crisis, a broad reform agenda to strengthen regulatory standards for international banks, such as prudential requirements, was agreed by g20 leaders. the european parliament today recalls the importance of establishing sound global standards and principles for the prudential regulation of banks in order to reduce the likelihood and severity of future crises. a sound and well-capitalised banking system is essential to safeguard financial stability, ensure adequate lending to the real economy throughout the cycle and support economic growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the parliament reiterated that banks must be properly capitalised in order to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid a repetition of the massive bailouts seen during the crisis. it stresses the need to develop appropriate regulation of the shadow banking sector in order to guarantee fair competition and financial stability.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because a resilient and sufficiently capitalised banking system is a prerequisite for maintaining financial stability, providing adequate lending to the real economy throughout the cycle, and promoting economic growth.
in writing. ‒ this resolution is a response to the council's annual report on the state of play of the common security and defence policy (csdp), in particular on the implementation of the csdp in the individual member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu. these measures include the fundamental revision of the csdp, the establishment of a permanent eu headquarters for the planning of civil and military operations, and support for csdp research. the report also stresses the importance of cooperation with nato for the eu. i support the report because i believe that closer cooperation between member states in the field of csdp is necessary, as no country can face the challenges of a globalised world alone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which stresses that the security environment in europe has deteriorated significantly and that to deal with this the union needs a revised and more robust common policy based on permanent structured cooperation. similarly, this policy should be based on a strong principle of collective defence and effective financing and the active participation of all member states.
the european security situation has deteriorated considerably in recent years. not only is the european union the target of terrorist acts, but there are also ongoing tensions at the external borders and long-standing hotbeds of violence in africa and elsewhere in the world that threaten international peace and stability. according to the results of the eurobarometer survey of june 2016, two out of three europeans want the european union to make greater efforts in the field of security and defence. and rightly so, because today the individual member states react in an uncoordinated and fragmented way to the risks that threaten us all, and no single country is able to respond to these crisis situations on its own. moreover, we must also be aware that we cannot continue to rely on others for our safety. so it's time for a radical change. the member states must join forces. if we want a credible, effective european foreign policy, then, as this report says, we must urgently work on joint operations and missions, joint investment in defence, a joint defence capability and a european operational headquarters. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is able to fulfil its obligations under the treaty of rome.
in writing. ‒ a common security and defence policy (csdp) is high on the european agenda, but it is difficult to reach agreement on this between the different member states and political families. every report on this subject is reduced to a lengthy list of everything that has anything to do with military or defence matters. it's like a letter to santa claus. we are now seeing the outlines of a european army emerge, and then the desire to increase defence budgets so that there is money to invest in drones or military research. however, there is a constant lack of a clear vision of defence and security for the outside world or for foreign embassies. it is therefore difficult to agree to such a report. the green group wants a common security and defence policy to focus on humanitarian missions, peacekeeping and crisis management rather than on warfare and defending our homeland. instead of increasing the defence budget, we should be looking at how we can use the 200 billion euros a year more efficiently. by joint procurement, joint military research and, above all, by increasing transparency in the 'military market' simply by respecting european public procurement rules. but in many cases this is aimed at deaf people.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the text of mr pașcu. i see that the security environment in europe has deteriorated significantly and is now more volatile, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable. i also note that the threats are both conventional and hybrid, that they are both state and non-state actors, that they come from the south and the east and that their impact varies from one member state to another. i am for a european army! it will also save a lot of money in many countries. it will also increase the effectiveness of our defense.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i am firmly convinced that a thorough and substantial revision of the csdp is necessary to enable the eu and its member states to make a decisive contribution to the security of the eu, the management of international crises and the maintenance of the eu's strategic autonomy. no country can face the security threats of today alone.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since as a liberal i believe in the fight against radicalisation. i believe that the common security and defence policy will also help to reduce conflicts in the middle east. we need to create synergies between eu capabilities and we also need to increase investments in security and defence. this topic is relevant especially right now, in light of the recent terrorist attacks and the unstable political landscape outside the union. in this situation we need a permanent structured cooperation. moreover i support the defence action plan and the eu defence research programme. cooperation between member states on this sensible topic will only be beneficial for the safety of the eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ the resolution addresses the threats posed to the eu by targeted propaganda by state and non-state actors. the report explicitly mentions the activities of russia and is against the eu and its member states. russia is thus seeking to disrupt the relations of the member states with each other and with the usa and to challenge the eu's value system. the is is trying to use its propaganda to radicalize people and to incite them to fight against european values. i support the report because it calls for better and more coordinated cooperation between the relevant authorities at both european and national level to prevent hate speech against the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which calls on the union to develop actions to counter propaganda against it by third countries. the resolution also calls on the eu to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the us and that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the us.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report and abstained on the separate votes on the various paragraphs. i did it on purpose. of course, i agree that the eu needs to put in place an effective and democratic strategy to combat hostile propaganda. but i cannot bring myself to put on almost the same footing the countermeasures against putin's russia and those aimed at responding to the criminal fanatics of daesh who slaughter innocent people and plan murderous attacks on european soil. i deplore putin's authoritarian behaviour and russia's bellicose posture, but that does not justify putting them in the same bag as the bloodthirsty barbarians of the islamic state.
in writing. the original draft of the report emphasised the need to adopt a clear strategy against hostile propaganda and disinformation disseminated by third parties, which aim to disrupt europe and its society and incite young people to violence against the society in which they have grown up. that is why i also support all initiatives and instruments which counteract messages of hatred and propaganda and make young people and people resilient and immune to the perfidious effects of propaganda. the problem with this report, however, is that in assessing the phenomenon of propaganda, russia and the terrorist daesh are placed on the same level and treated in the same way. that is why i did not approve the report, which does not detract from the fact that in my view propaganda must always be refuted and there is no doubt that the atrocities of daesh must be condemned in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. - i voted against the fotyga report with both hands, unlike 208 colleagues who thought the same but chose the diplomatic route of abstention! it is because of them that it took 304 meps out of 691 present to pass a text suffering from an unforgivable original sin: to put the islamic state and russia on an equal footing. the time is now for information warfare and europe must have a robust strategy to counter the propaganda directed against it. it is not just an issue of external relations. the campaign by isil to brainwash young europeans is a striking example of this when it encourages terrorism on our soil. isil, that's over 33,000 dead, 41,000 wounded, and 11,000 hostages around the world between 2002 and 2015. i agree with the substance of this text, as do the vast majority of those who, like me, rejected it. the problem was to deal with russia and isis in a single report. it is this essential vice of form that i denounce. whether we like putin's ways or not, there is no solution to global terrorism without russia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the union's strategic communication to counter propaganda directed against it by third parties, because the disinformation distilled by islamist terrorist groups on the one hand and russia on the other poses a great risk to democracy. as alfred sauvy wrote: "well informed, men are citizens; ill-informed, they become subjects". more investment is needed in awareness-raising and education to enable everyone to form their own opinion, with a critical mind and full knowledge of the facts. propaganda has never done any good and if we must cooperate and put in place measures to combat manipulation, we must do so.
in writing. - i abstained in that vote. to be quite honest, there are many passages which lend themselves to interpretation and which seem to me to pose problems. the imperfect, sometimes erroneous, writing does not allow me to give my approval.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that the image of the eu must be preserved all around the world. hostile propaganda against the eu comes in different forms and so various tools will have to be used to counteract it. this is not only an external eu problem but also an internal one. disinformation and propaganda are part of hybrid warfare aimed to weaken the image of the european union. often this propaganda is based on false or distorted information, in order to create confusion in the mind of the citizens. russia is contacting eu counterparts in order to establish propaganda that puts europe in a bad light. russia is using a wide range of instruments such as think tanks, special foundations and multilingual tv stations. i stand totally against this way of acting by the russian government, and i think that everything has to be done in order to defend europe and its values. however, i think the topics of russia and is should have been addressed in separate resolutions since they are two very different issues.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which stresses the importance of qualified sign language interpreters and that, to this end, national and regional sign languages should be recognised in the member states and within the eu institutions, official training should be developed and official recognition of the profession should be possible. the report also stresses the need for citizens who are deaf, deafblind or hard of hearing to have access to the same information and communications as their fellow citizens through sign language interpretation, subtitling, voice recognition or other forms of communication, including the use of interpreters.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on sign language and professional sign language interpreters. every citizen has the right to choose his life, to fulfil his uniqueness and to freely exercise his potential. it is essential to combat all discrimination on the basis of disability. equality between individuals must be a reality in accordance with the 2006 un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. every individual has the right to dignity, equal treatment, an independent life and full participation in the life of society. accessibility is not limited to physical accessibility, but goes beyond, including accessibility of information and communication and equal access to justice, employment, education and training. by voting for this resolution, we are helping to ensure that persons with disabilities enjoy all human rights fully and equally, with respect for their dignity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on sign languages and professional sign language interpreters because it deals with several important aspects of the subject. first, the resolution stresses the importance of having qualified and professional sign language interpreters. secondly, it further clarifies the distinction between accessibility and reasonable accommodation in the field of sign language. thirdly, it addresses the issue of accessibility, and in particular the need to ensure that people who are deaf, deafblind or hard of hearing have access to the same information and communications as their fellow citizens. fourth, it highlights the commitment of member states to guarantee the right to work for citizens who are deaf, deafblind or hard of hearing through education and training. finally, it reiterated the role of the european institutions as an example in terms of reasonable accommodation and accessibility for staff and visitors to the institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. the availability of qualified and professional sign language interpreters is essential and, to this end, measures should be taken for the official recognition of national and regional sign languages in the member states and in the union institutions, for official training (university or equivalent, i.e. three years of full-time study, which corresponds to the training required for spoken language interpreters), for registration and, finally, for official recognition of the profession.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because accessibility for people with disabilities is a prerequisite for independent living and full and equal participation in community life.
in writing. ‒ the european commission has presented a draft decision to member states to extend the authorisation of the controversial substance benthazone used in plant protection products until 2032. in its objection, the eu parliament declared the submission of this draft inadmissible, as the effects and risks of the active substance were not yet sufficiently clarified and the commission therefore exceeded its powers by the draft authorisation. parliament considered that the risk analysis for bentazone had significant shortcomings which needed to be addressed and called on the commission to submit a different draft to the member states. i voted in favour of parliament's objection because i believe that consumer protection must be the most important criterion in the authorisation procedure and that the precautionary principle should be applied in full.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution rejecting the draft commission regulation renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone. the report considers that the evaluation of the representative uses of bentazone is not sufficient to conclude that it is not liable to have an adverse effect on human health. it therefore calls on the commission to give priority to the evaluation of the relevant missing information before taking a decision on the approval of the
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation did not support the objection to the renewal of the approval of the active substance bentazone, mainly for the following two reasons: the european commission has not exceeded its mandate in its decision to renew approval. the n-va strongly believes in evidence-based and scientifically backed policy. both the european food safety authority (efsa) and the rapporteur member state, the netherlands, came to the conclusion that bentazone is safe when used correctly. all this does not take away from the fact that the n-va strongly supports integrated pest management and advocates the sustainable use of pesticides and non-chemical alternatives. the n-va has therefore supported amendments to that effect. in flanders, for example, a ban on pesticides for public administrations has been in force since january 2015 under the motto "without is healthier". pesticides can only be used under specific conditions. individuals are also encouraged to avoid pesticides.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution calling for the european authorisation of the herbicide bentazone, which expires on 30 june 2017, not to be renewed until its safety has been confirmed. it appears that bentazone can easily reach groundwater and may be toxic to human reproduction. i also note that the european food safety authority (efsa) has proposed that the active substance bentazone be classified as toxic to reproduction category 2. therefore, until the consumer risk assessment is finalised and data are available, in particular on potential groundwater exposure, i would advocate strict application of the precautionary principle.
in writing. we call on the commission not to take any premature decisions but to base an authorisation for the renewal of the use of the active ingredient bentazone in plant protection products on all the necessary information needed to take that decision. the marketing authorisation for bentazone is due to expire on 30 june 2017. this means that the commission has until then to take a decision on the basis of a complete dossier, including data on the impact of bentazone on humans, animals and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the european authorisation of bentazone should not be renewed until its safety has been demonstrated. in summary, this is the message sent by the european parliament's plenary on wednesday in a non-binding resolution targeting this herbicide which acts against broadleaf weeds and is commonly used in the agricultural sector. the objectors, first and foremost mr pavel poc, focused in this resolution exclusively on the procedural aspects of this authorization. a difficult but necessary work! on the one hand, some data were still recently requested from the applicant company in the context of the 'data confirmation procedure', a practice that had been strongly criticised by the european ombudsman in a decision of february 2016. in addition, the commission granted a maximum authorisation of 15 years, until 31 january 2032, despite the absence of data on human and animal toxicity and ecotoxicity as indicated in the efsa study. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution calling on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing regulation to extend the approval of the active substance bentazone until 31 january 2032. the reason for my choice is simple: there is currently insufficient evidence to say that this substance may not have harmful effects on human or animal health or on groundwater or have an unacceptable impact on the environment. therefore, for obvious public health reasons, it was important to oppose any extension of bentazone. i also welcome the fact that this resolution calls on the commission and the member states to fund research and innovation into viable and cost-effective solutions to replace these pesticides for health reasons.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the evaluation of the representative uses of the active substance bentazone is not sufficient to conclude that, for at least one of the representative uses, a plant protection product containing the active substance bentazone may not have adverse effects on human or animal health or on groundwater or have an unacceptable impact on the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour because the inherent properties of bentazone make it very likely that the active substance bentazone will end up in groundwater.
author. on the eve of the international day for the elimination of violence against women, it is absolutely unacceptable that there is little progress in combating violence against women and gender-based violence. according to a recent fra study, one in five women in the eu has experienced physical violence by someone other than their partner since the age of 15. in particular, women with disabilities are estimated to be one and a half to 10 times more likely to be abused than women without disabilities. violence against women, but certainly also against men and children, is a violation of fundamental rights and an extreme form of discrimination that is both a cause and consequence of gender inequality. the commission proposed on 4 march 2016 that the eu accede to the istanbul convention: the first legally binding instrument at international level for preventing and combating violence against women. only 14 eu countries, including belgium, have ratified the treaty. i am naturally in favour of the eu's accession to the istanbul convention. of course, it is in principle up to the member states to do their job and protect women from violence, but the eu can act in a complementary way, for example in relation to victims' rights and protection orders and in the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
madam president, simone de beauvoir said: 'it will take a political crisis, an economic crisis or a religious crisis for women's rights to be called into question. these rights are never acquired". today we are experiencing the three crises: a political crisis with a rise of populism and conservatism, an economic crisis, of course, and a religious crisis - just look at what is happening today in syria and the victims, especially women, in these migration movements. these three crises should make us even more vigilant in regard to violence against women, because we can of course expect that there will be further increases in this violence against women. it is not just a matter of denouncing, which is what we are doing today, of course. what we are asking for by ratifying the convention is action. we must ensure that there are concrete action plans to combat this violence, and that there are legislative instruments to enable us to play our role as parliamentarians and to be able to impose certain things. therefore, to all those who say that we do not have the tools to act - as the council said earlier when it said that there were things to be settled on the legal level - i say that we can act, and i would even say that we must act.
no is no. leave me alone is no. i don't feel like it is a no. not doing is no. i don't want to is no. this, my friends, we can say in all the languages of the hemisphere. and yet, one in three women is a victim of violence. i am glad that we are here today to take the step of accession to the convention, but let us be honest: we need to do more. we need to come up with a real plan of action. we need to get to a situation where the men are holding the women's hands. we need to get to a situation where we actually protect victims, where sexual assault complaints are taken seriously, where victims are helped. colleagues, i call on you here today, let's all stand up together on this hemisphere today, please stand up with me and shout: no to violence against women.
mr president, commissioner, like other members of this house, i of course welcome the commission's decision to put in place an action plan on vat. i think that there is a real need for a reform which will establish a single community area in the field of vat. we know that vat in europe is an important issue. in 2014, it represented €1 trillion in revenue, or about 7% of the union's gdp, and, above all, it is part of the union's own resources that allow us to finance a whole series of interesting projects for our fellow citizens, whether it be the youth guarantee, cultural programmes, aid to the poorest or aid to the dismissed of multinationals. but, as we all know, there is still too much fraud. i therefore believe that this text will really help us to improve the vat collection system, to eliminate vat fraud and to reduce administrative formalities. i think this last point is important because it will simplify the business operations of smes and, more importantly, it will underline the need for harmonisation at the level of the european union in the area of tax policy. we have also appealed to the member states because - as we all know - this is a national policy, but it is good to converge towards an equivalent rate of vat in the various member states if we want to find a solution to this problem. we also ask for a regular review of the annex to the vat directive containing the list of goods and services subject to vat, because i would like to point out that vat is still an unfair tax which affects all categories of the population in the same way. it seems to me therefore essential to support the reintroduction of a higher vat rate, particularly for all luxury goods, but also - as my colleague denanot has just said - to remove social services of general interest from the law of the market and, as regards the application of vat, to maintain the exemptions enjoyed by public services. finally, commissioner - and this is the most important request i have made to the commission - we must assess the impact of the lack of harmonisation of tax rates at european union level. i think that is what will really convince the member states, given the cross-border fraud.
in writing. the development of second pillar pension schemes (employer pension) should not be at the expense of the statutory pension (first pillar), which still provides the best guarantee against poverty in old age. after all, people are being pushed into pension schemes where they share the risks but cannot reap the benefits of equities. a stress test showed that there is a gap of 430 billion euros between the promised revenues and the actual resources available to deliver on the promises. this could amount to eur 770 billion in a stable economic climate. withdrawing the pocket from the statutory pension may patch up the numbers, but it does not offer a lasting solution. we do not want to encourage the crossborder pension market. i fully support the report, however, because the investment and risk management procedures also include criteria on environmental, social and governance aspects. this not only makes pension funds more transparent, but also gives them the legal guarantee that an environmentally responsible investment strategy cannot be sued if it would yield less than a social or environmentally unfriendly investment. and that is unique in european law.
for the ecr group shocking numbers of elephants, tigers, rhinoceroses, and other species are killed for gadgets and souvenirs, so-called medicines, or useless fashion accessories. unconscionable poachers and traders are selling nature for a lot of money, and we all need to put an end to this. illegal trade in wildlife is one of the most important forms of organised crime in the world. the trade brings billions of euros into the hands of criminal organisations every year, is linked to drug and arms trafficking, and funds militias and terrorist groups. moreover, illegal activities are increasing dramatically. illegal trade is not only deadly for many protected species, it is also extremely dangerous. trade is leading to insecurity and instability, for example in central africa, and this has also been explicitly recognised by the un security council. the eu is a party to the case. europe is not only a market for illegal products, it is also a hub. reasons enough to fight this illegal trade vigorously. for the sake of nature and our safety. a european action plan is not too soon. we have a good plan of action, but that's not the end of the story. the big challenge is to effectively translate words into action. the implementation, enforcement and monitoring of the action plan and of existing legislation are crucial. i can only thank mr bearder and the other members for the pleasant and constructive cooperation.
in writing. drug trafficking, human trafficking and arms trafficking are the three most lucrative criminal activities. at the bottom of the list, with up to 20 billion euros in annual profits, is the illegal trade in wildlife, plants, and other products. the situation is getting worse every year, leading to the extinction of some species. the horror of it all is that the rarer a species becomes, the higher the price of the products associated with these killings, thereby causing the slaughter to escalate. the european parliament proposes an action plan and calls for exemplary sanctions to combat this scourge. without biodiversity, there will be no humanity. we are calling for severe sanctions to be taken on european soil against traffickers and for the establishment of a european coordinator for the fight against this type of crime. europol must consider this activity as a form of organised crime. finally, we are calling for legislation inspired by the american model and in which it is clearly stated that if a product has been made or obtained illegally in one country, it is also illegal in the country of destination.
for the ecr group we are, of course, aware of the countless cases in china where human rights defenders, writers, dissidents have faced threats, arbitrary arrests, detention in unknown places, unfair trials, house arrest and even torture. new chinese legislation gives authorities virtually unlimited powers to arrest citizens on the basis of vague descriptions, detain them in unknown locations, and sentence them to long prison terms. china goes to great lengths to persecute people beyond its borders. today we're concerned about publisher gui minhai, a hong kong citizen who was abducted from his apartment in thailand and smuggled into china. and who subsequently appeared on chinese state television with a bizarre confession. four other of his missing colleagues have since been apprehended. there are many questions, but few or no answers. where and how is he being held? has he had access to a lawyer or a visit, and if not, why not? are chinese police agencies operating against the agreements on the territory of hong kong? we ask for clarification and a commitment from the eu to have a real and clear human rights dialogue with china.
- a writer. it is one of the tragedies of human history. indigenous peoples have too often been confronted with injustice and violence in a dramatic way. they were driven out, hunted down, persecuted by newcomers or colonists who were looking for fortune or thought they were bringing civilization. it is not the phenomenon of one country or one continent. it's happened in many places. unfortunately, we cannot undo historical mistakes, but we can and must support the indigenous peoples who are struggling to survive today, who are striving for recognition and fundamental rights. such as the guarani-kaiowà, a people who had to make way for large-scale agriculture in the brazilian state of mato grosso do sul. they were gradually driven from their habitat. it leads to conflict, and unfortunately, violence. they need protection, they need a guaranteed habitat, and they need to be able to invoke their constitutional rights. we call on the brazilian government to take responsibility. brazil, the country which invested so much in organizing the olympic games, must now also put into practice the olympic idea of brotherhood and guarantee the rights of this beautiful people.
i'm not afraid to die. i'm especially afraid that i can't stand the torture any longer. let these words, commissioner, sink in for a moment. these are the dramatic words with which ildar dadin concludes a letter to his wife from prison no. 7 in karelia, north-west russia. he was sentenced to two and a half years in prison for criticizing the putin regime and organizing street protests. he was severely abused, as were so many other political and prisoners of conscience in russia and from occupied territories, such as the ukrainian crimea. it is remarkable and unusual, by the way, that his story even made the news on russian state television. the kremlin promised to investigate the case. we'll see about that. today we explicitly mention the name of ildar dadin and we ask for his release. but we do not forget that he is one of the many victims of a series of special laws with which the kremlin wants to stifle all opposition, paralyze the civil society and restrict free speech. the law on undesirable organizations, the demonstration law, the law on gay propaganda among minors, the law on foreign agents, the libel law, the high treason law, the blasphemy law, the internet law, the anti-magnitski law, and so on. it is particularly cynical and disturbing that russia has simply legalized human rights violations. we want russia to be a real and reliable partner again, and most russians want the same. and that will happen if the kremlin resumes its international obligations. the european union must therefore continue to send moscow the message, with one voice, that respect for human rights and international law is an absolute prerequisite. to reinforce that message, we need to take targeted sanctions against those responsible for the mistreatment of ildar dadin and other human rights activists, journalists or opponents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes that the union make available to jordan macro-financial assistance of an additional maximum amount of eur 350 million. jordan, which is facing a decline in its economic growth, in particular as a result of the conflicts in iraq and syria, is home to hundreds of thousands of syrian refugees and needs substantial assistance to assist it in this considerable effort.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the macro-financial assistance of eur 200 million for jordan to contribute to the economic stability of that country, with which the european union intends to have a close partnership. this amount, allocated in the form of loans for the next two years, is also intended to support the substantial reform programme needed to bring the country back on its feet, as well as jordan's balance of payments needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the text of my colleague mr maurel. in the face of jordan's economic difficulties, the european union must show its support for its partner, whose refugee policy demands respect. we therefore want the macro-financial assistance programme to be effective as soon as possible, so that it can be of concrete benefit to jordan at this crucial time. finally, we suggest that the european commission should be flexible and 'intelligent' when negotiating the 'memorandum of understanding' with the jordanian authorities and should work, in the relevant international forums or through concrete actions, to find solutions to alleviate jordan's burden of debt, which is exploding.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because less tourism and a lower inflow of foreign direct investment (fdi), blocked trade routes and repeated disruptions to natural gas supplies from egypt have put a brake on growth and weighed on jordan's budgetary situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to improve the governance and transparency of occupational pension institutions in europe, to promote cross-border activities and to encourage long-term investment. the commission has struck a balance between strengthening national regimes and respecting national discretion. the development of crossborder ones. the irp (institute for occupational pensions) will continue to be based on national social and occupational standards, recognising the specificities of national schemes. they will be controlled at national level and no european supervision is being created. at the same time, the text encourages the development of crossborder arrangements which must be coupled with provisions preventing regulatory arbitrage.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. this directive aims at ensuring minimum harmonisation and should not prevent member states from maintaining or introducing other provisions to protect members and beneficiaries of occupational pension schemes. but as far as pensions are concerned, my position is clear: i am in favour of strengthening the first pillar of pensions.
in writing. - i voted for the text. this directive aims at ensuring minimum harmonisation and should not prevent member states from maintaining or introducing other provisions to protect members and beneficiaries of occupational pension schemes, provided that those provisions are consistent with the obligations of member states under union law. this directive does not deal with matters of national social, tax, labour or contract law or with the adequacy of pension benefits in the member states, other than the rules on occupational pension benefits which it establishes.
in writing. ‒ the war in syria continues with unabated severity. every day we are bombarded with news of horrors and images of cruel suffering. the report by parliament, which i support, condemns this in the strongest terms. parliament expressed its deep concern at the continuing fighting, bombing and deterioration of the humanitarian situation in syria. it called for an immediate end to attacks on civilians and condemned the atrocities committed by the assad regime, with the help of russia and iraq, and by is and other jihadist groups. parliament also welcomed the efforts of the hr to develop a joint eu-syria strategy and called on the member states to honour their commitments to provide financial assistance to syria's neighbours.
in writing. ‒ i have endorsed this resolution which once again strongly condemns all attacks targeting civilians and civilian infrastructure. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. welcoming the efforts of humanitarian workers, the resolution urges all participants in the syria support group to resume negotiations for a lasting ceasefire and to intensify their efforts for a lasting political settlement of the situation in syria.
in writing. ‒ today the n-va delegation voted in favour of the draft resolution on the situation in syria. we condemn in this way the attacks on civilians and aid convoys carried out by the syrian government with the support of other foreign powers such as russia. we also express our disapproval of all the atrocities committed by the regime, by is and by all other terrorist organisations. we also call on the moderate opposition to expressly reject fundamentalist ideologies. finally, we insist on a political solution to the conflict.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the resolution on syria, calling for access to humanitarian aid throughout the country, whereas it is currently blocked. moreover, i cannot tolerate the bombing of civilians and the violations of human rights and international humanitarian law that are taking place. those responsible for these acts must be brought to justice for their heinous crimes. the situation in the country, particularly in aleppo, is catastrophic. the people are starving, have difficulty accessing humanitarian aid and feel totally neglected. it is the responsibility of the syrian authorities to ensure the protection of the population and to evacuate from the areas where fighting is raging. the eu and its member states should fully support the un and the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons (opcw) in continuing the investigation into the use and destruction of chemical weapons by all parties to the conflict in syria and in advocating, through all possible diplomatic means, a peaceful resolution to the conflict.
in writing. ‒ we strongly condemn all attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure. the european union is focusing mainly on the humanitarian aspects of the conflict, but we are concerned that humanitarian aid is being diverted to terrorist groups. the european parliament wants to highlight the ambiguous role played in the syrian conflict by turkey, which is seeking to stop the expansion of kurdish militias rather than fighting the islamic state group on syrian territory.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because over the six years of conflict, extreme violence and cruelty in syria, more than 400 000 people have been killed and more than 13 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that the situation in syria is very dramatic. apart from the human tragedy of this war, it is also causing thousands of refugees to flow to europe, incrementing an already huge problem for the european union. there is a need to act because is is trying to influence the region more and more. i support the call on all armed groups to cease collaboration with the former al-nusra. a no-fly zone over aleppo should be established.
in writing. ‒ the situation in turkey has deteriorated further in recent months. whereas human rights such as freedom of the press and freedom of expression were already restricted before the failed coup attempt, the government is now taking even tougher action against alleged opponents of the regime and dissidents. president erdoğan has imposed mass layoffs and arrests and is in the process of turning turkey into an autocratic state. in the light of these extremely worrying developments, parliament called on the commission and the member states to suspend the accession negotiations with turkey. i voted for the resolution because i believe that suspending the talks is the least the eu can do to clearly condemn the human rights situation in turkey, even though i would like to see an even stronger signal by stopping the talks.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this joint resolution because i am firmly convinced that we must move beyond the speeches and actions on both sides which only increase tension and, on the contrary, start a genuine structured dialogue between turkey and the european union.
in writing. ‒ we cannot stand idly by while the turkish authorities violate the most basic rights. i am not only in favour of freezing the accession negotiations, as my vote today shows, but more generally i am convinced that the time is ripe for the internal strengthening of the european union rather than for enlargement plans. the european union must, of course, establish a special relationship with turkey, but only if its leaders respect democratic values, which is clearly not the case.
in writing. ‒ a majority of meps rightly believe that the negotiation process on turkey's possible accession to the european union should be frozen. the green group would also like to see the visa liberalisation, erdogan's pet, reversed. by maintaining dialogue with turkey we can try to prevent a final alienation from each other, but we must not close our eyes to what is happening in turkey today. i think it is important that the rule of law is respected and that the coup plotters are prosecuted in turkey. but the violations of human rights, the suppression of opposition and the criminalization of journalistic activities have little to do with the rule of law. resisting president erdogan seems to be a reason in itself to be imprisoned, prosecuted or fired. europe must speak out clearly against this. this is no longer acceptable and legitimizes the freezing of the negotiations on possible accession. this message is also addressed to erdogan: the european union is also committed to the principle of non-refoulement.
in writing. ‒ we strongly condemn the disproportionate repressive measures applied in turkey since the failed military coup attempt in july 2016 and reaffirm our commitment to maintaining turkey's anchorage in the european union. however, we call on the commission and the member states to initiate a temporary freeze on the ongoing accession negotiations with turkey.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the repressive measures taken by the turkish government in the context of the state of emergency are disproportionate and contrary to the fundamental rights and freedoms enshrined in the turkish constitution and to the democratic values on which the european union is founded.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution. however, i condemn the disproportionate repressive measures taken in turkey after the failed military coup attempt. the ongoing accession of turkey to the eu should be temporarily frozen. i believe that europe’s approach towards turkey right now should only change in case the rule of law and human rights are restored throughout the country.
in writing. ‒ the istanbul convention contains a large number of measures aimed at preventing and combating violence against women. these include, for example, commitments to raise public awareness of the issue, to collect data on violence against women, and to enact laws that criminalise different types of gender-based violence. the eu has decided to accede to the convention on the proposal of the commission and all member states have signed it. the ratification of the treaty in the member states is, however, still pending. i therefore support the resolution tabled jointly by the groups calling on the member states to speed up the ratification process. the commission is also proposing to establish a european framework for the fight against violence against women and gender-based violence in general.
in writing. ‒ i have of course endorsed this joint resolution which strongly condemns all forms of violence against women and girls and expresses concern at the scale of violence against them in the union. the report calls on member states to cooperate in order to share good practices and effective methods of preventing violence and protecting men and women from gender-based violence. the resolution also notes that the 28 member states have signed the council of europe's istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, which demonstrates the political will of the member states to put an end to violence against women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which strongly encourages member states to ratify as soon as possible the council of europe convention signed in 2011 in istanbul, which aims to further combat violence against women. although all the member states of the european union have signed the convention, only 14 have ratified it. the following countries are not included: germany, the united kingdom, ireland, luxembourg, hungary, the czech republic, slovakia, bulgaria, croatia, greece, cyprus and the three baltic states (estonia, latvia and lithuania). this is all the more regrettable as it is in fact the first legally binding instrument on preventing and combating violence against women at international level. i agree with many of my colleagues that violence against women is too often treated as a private matter and too easily tolerated. this is first and foremost a violation of fundamental rights and a serious offence which i believe must be punished as such.
in writing. ‒ coinciding with the international day for the elimination of violence against women on 25 november 2016, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the accession of the european union to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. this resolution is part of the eu's objective to promote and take action on equality between women and men. the eu's accession to the convention will ensure a coherent european legal framework to prevent and combat violence against women and gender-based violence and to protect victims.
in writing. ‒ as the international day for the elimination of violence against women takes place this friday, the european parliament reaffirms its full support for the istanbul convention this afternoon. this convention is crucial because it would be the first legally binding instrument in history to prevent and combat violence against women at international level. however, 14 countries have still not ratified the text, delaying the implementation of measures that could save lives. in europe, nearly one in three women is a victim of physical or sexual violence at least once in her life: to do nothing is to be an accomplice!
in writing. – i decided to vote in favour of this motion for resolution because as a liberal i’m a strong supporter of liberty and human rights. every women has to be treated fairly and should get the same opportunities. all forms of violence against women and girls are unacceptable, and usually they suffer also mentally after the physical violence occurred. gender—based violence is really at high levels, especially in the domestic environment. any type of study aimed to preventing this violence to occur is of course very welcome. i believe that is very important for member states to work together to share best practices and exchange effective ways of preventing violence and protecting men and women from gender-based violence.
in writing. ‒ the position of european ombudsman was created to give eu citizens a single point of contact for complaints about any type of maladministration in the activities of the european institutions, bodies, offices or agencies. the parliament's report on the ombudsman's activities in 2015 praises his work and calls for the greatest possible transparency. the committee also calls for a revision of the code of good administrative behaviour and the development of a directive on internal reporting. i support the report because i believe that the eu needs a high level of transparency and closeness to citizens to further strengthen its democratic legitimacy. the ombudsman's role is of the utmost importance in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which highlights the quality of the ombudsman's work and her unremitting activity to improve the quality of the service provided to citizens by the european administration. the high proportion of complaints about transparency is noteworthy, placing it at the top of the complaint list. while welcoming the ombudsman's efforts to improve the transparency of the ttip negotiations by submitting proposals to the european commission, the report reiterates that greater transparency is needed in the negotiation of international agreements, as many citizens are calling for.
in writing. ‒ n-va voted in favour of this report, which expresses appreciation for the work of the european ombudsman. the n-va is aware of the great importance of the work carried out by the european ombudsman. good governance, transparency and accessibility are essential if the eu is to maintain/re-establish its footing. in particular, for example, n-va supports the investigations into commissioners who leave office to work in the private sector and n-va supports more generally the need to effectively address conflicts of interest, the call for greater transparency of lobbying activities and the protection of whistleblowers. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of disabled people are fully respected. there is no credible europe without the involvement of its citizens!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015, whose activity, in particular the strategic inquiries, has highlighted the need for transparency in order to ensure good administration. at a time when many citizens are questioning the validity of trade agreements, it is essential to listen to their concerns and provide them with all the information they need to form their own opinions. we cannot make the european project more attractive if we are not able to investigate cases of fraud by commission officials, such as that of former commission president barroso, now appointed as an adviser and non-executive director of goldman sachs international. it is the ombudsman's role to make recommendations on the reform of the code of conduct for civil servants so that they are under an obligation since common sense alone is not enough to respect the requirements of ethics and the principles of good administration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. it highlights the most important issues and provides detailed information on the initiatives and activities of the european ombudsman, the use of social media to promote the institution's activities and the actions taken by the other union institutions in response to the ombudsman's recommendations. it is accompanied by statistics which are as informative and detailed in almost the same areas as the previous year, making it easy to make direct comparisons. it is nevertheless regrettable that the report is only published in english on the ombudsman's website, which limits the number of potential readers until all other language versions are available.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the european ombudsman's office has dealt with 48 840 complaints since 2005.
in writing. – i decided to vote in favour of this resolution since i agree with the call to inquire into the establishment of ‘secure reading rooms’. i welcome the frontex complaints mechanism and i commend the inclusion of such a mechanism in the new european border and coast guard regulation. i believe that transparency here is again a crucial element. i support the european ombudsman’s determination to make the workings of the european central bank more transparent and compliant with a high standard of governance. i agree with the call for greater transparency in eurogroup meetings, beyond the steps already taken by its president following an intervention by the european ombudsman. since i care a lot about human rights, i welcome the introduction of a complaints mechanism for potential fundamental rights infringements. finally, i support the ombudsman's efforts in dealing with discrimination cases and the efforts to ensure impartiality in commission decision-making on competition matters.
in writing. ‒ the current eu common vat system was created in 1993 as a transitional solution on the way to a definitive system. the report is the eu parliament's response to the commission's vat action plan presented in april. the current legal situation is extremely complex, with a wide variety of vat rates and exemptions. the action plan provides for the introduction of a simpler, fairer and definitive vat system based on the principle of taxation in the country of destination of goods and services. parliament welcomed the plan and called, inter alia, for the goods and services to be determined at eu level and for member states to be allowed to set their own rates of taxation as long as they were above a fixed minimum rate. i support the report of parliament, because simplification of the vat system is necessary to guarantee the functioning of the digital single market and to improve the situation of smes operating across borders.
in writing. ‒ vat raised almost €1 trillion in 2014. however, massive fraud is found in most member states. this corresponds to a loss of almost 170 billion euros. in this report we propose measures to improve the vat collection system, to eliminate vat fraud and to reduce administrative formalities. the aim of this text is to simplify the business operations of smes and to underline the need for harmonisation at eu level in the field of taxation policy. we also call for a regular review of the annex to the vat directive with the list of goods and services subject to reduced vat. i would remind you that vat is an unfair tax which affects all categories of the population in the same proportion. here, too, it is the workers and pensioners who finance the tax reductions for the richest and the most wealthy.
in writing. ‒ next year, the european commission will present a proposal for a definitive vat system. in the run-up to this, the commission launched an action plan on vat in april. the general outline of the proposal is good, but we have to wait for the concrete results. it is important that there should finally be a definitive vat system based on the principle of taxation in the country of destination. it is also important to pay more attention to e-commerce and smes, to tackle fraud and to give member states more freedom in terms of tariffs. the nva voted against this report, which expresses parliament's views, because it calls for less freedom for the member states and more harmonisation. unfortunately, parliament is going against the good intentions of the commission to give the member states a little more freedom.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on 'towards a definitive vat system and the fight against vat fraud' because i believe it contains interesting recommendations, particularly with a view to combating tax fraud. i am in favour of a better exchange of information between the tax authorities of the member states. according to the commission, as much as €160 billion of vat revenue has been lost since september 2014 due to legal tax optimisation, fraud, errors, inaccuracies and negligence, late payments or bankruptcies. let us hope that the vat package which the commission will present will put an end to these practices which are at best ethically dubious and at worst fraudulent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text denouncing the commission's cold-blooded position. the proposed initiatives and timetable are far from being a particularly decisive step forward. instead of reforming a transitional system that came into force more than 20 years ago, the commission is content to propose increased cooperation, to hope for greater trust between tax administrations, to set a timetable and to carry out further assessments of the situation. a sustainable vat system could consist in extending the self-liquidation mechanism to all transactions between traders throughout europe. in this model, there is no longer any upfront tax collection and refund. in the absence of financial flows, all risks of fraud disappear. this would significantly reduce distortions of competition. in addition, it would be a considerable relief for companies in terms of financing and administrative obligations. invoicing would be considerably simplified. entrepreneurs should no longer pre-finance the vat upfront.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because vat fraud is a very harmful practice that drains member states' budgets of considerable sums and undermines their efforts to consolidate public finances.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that the existing vat system should be improved, allowing for fewer exemptions. in my opinion an efficient vat system is fundamental for the functioning of the single market. in order to reach a definitive vat system, but also to detect vat fraud, the efforts among member states become fundamental. the current system is not totally bad, but it can be simplified, making member states comply with minimum tax rates. very important in my opinion is that vat are equal for public and private companies. so even if tax-legislation is exclusive competence of each member state, there is a need for higher harmonisation.
in writing. ‒ wildlife trafficking is an international organised crime that generates around €20 billion a year for criminals and has serious impacts on biodiversity. this report, which i have approved, calls on the european commission, the member states, europol and eurojust to recognise that wildlife crime is a serious and growing threat and to combat it today with the utmost political will. the report stresses the need for comprehensive and coordinated strategies in the targeted areas of action, for adequate resources and for a permanent monitoring and evaluation mechanism to measure progress. it also stresses the need to provide assistance, guidance and training to the authorities in the countries of origin, transit and destination with regard to investigations, as well as law enforcement and judicial procedures at local, regional and national levels.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament responded this afternoon to the commission's action plan to combat wildlife trafficking. this highly lucrative trade generates between $8 billion and $20 billion annually and threatens the survival of many species - including rhinos, elephants, great apes, tigers, and pangolins and sturgeons. two strong proposals are made: firstly, to ban all purchases of ivory and rhino horn within the union. the reality of the figures cannot be ignored: an elephant is killed every 12 minutes, and ivory from its tusks brings in more money in africa than drug trafficking! the union must empower europol to combat this criminal activity more effectively. it is also essential to harmonise criminal sanctions within the union and to ensure that they are truly dissuasive. it is unacceptable that in some eu countries traffickers are only fined a maximum of eur 15 000, while rhino horn on the black market can fetch up to eur 50 000. defending large mammals and all endangered species is a moral duty for europe and europeans. that should be a priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the european union action plan against wildlife trafficking. i want to be very clear on this. the european union must immediately and without exception ban the trade in ivory and rhino horn within its borders. i am also in favour of harmonising the sanctions against those who commit these atrocities. the resolution also contains other recommendations that the commission and the member states should follow up on in order to effectively combat wildlife trafficking.
in writing. ‒ illegal trade in wildlife by criminal organisations is becoming an increasing problem. the link between the two lies in the fact that the proceeds generate a large amount of profit in a relatively easy way and thus are an attractive source for criminals to finance their activities. the european union has drawn up an action plan to combat this trade as far as possible. it states, among other things, that prevention is better than cure and that campaigns should therefore focus on reducing the demand for and supply of wild animals and plants. the correct punishment of illegal traders can also reduce such practices. close cooperation between countries of origin, destination and transit of illicit trafficking is essential in this respect. together with a shared responsibility of all member states on these points, we can save different animal and plant species and ensure the preservation of our ecosystem. the green group supports this plan, but calls for radical additions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal hunting and poaching.
in writing. ‒ drug trafficking, human trafficking and arms trafficking are the three most lucrative criminal activities. at the bottom of the list, with up to 20 billion euros in annual profits, is the illegal trade in wildlife, plants, and other products. the situation is getting worse every year, leading to the extinction of some species. the horror of it all is that the rarer a species becomes, the higher the price of the products associated with these killings, thereby causing the slaughter to escalate. the european parliament proposes an action plan and calls for exemplary sanctions to combat this scourge. without biodiversity, there will be no humanity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the illegal trade in wildlife has become a multibillion-dollar criminal industry dominated by organised criminal groups.
in writing. ‒ all the companies in question play a crucial role in the transport of passengers and goods by adding fuel to the wheels of a mobility that has historically been structured by the 'big boys'. through better local market knowledge, greater proximity to the customer and/or often agility and innovation, small businesses improve individual passenger transport, especially during the fateful last mile in densely populated areas. similarly, in landlocked areas where the construction of railway infrastructure or the organisation of public transport would be too costly, the private car is often the only means of transport available to certain categories of the population. small transport companies are therefore at the heart of european mobility. but they are full of talents who need a favourable environment to develop. this is where the regulator can and must do its job by creating the most favourable regulatory, social and fiscal environment possible. this will enable small transport enterprises to turn the many challenges they face today, most notably the ict revolution, into opportunities.
in writing. ‒ small transport companies with a diverse profile, from family businesses to smes, from craft enterprises to start-ups and innovative companies, play a major role in the transport of both goods and passengers. as they tend to have a better knowledge of the local market and are closer to their customers, they often provide very valuable services, including and especially in the delicate transport network. as new information and communication technologies have now become accessible to these small transport enterprises, the sector can be fully modernised, which will not only benefit the supplier and the customer, but also have positive effects on the sustainable use of the limited capacity of our transport infrastructure. it is of course very important that european policy does not impede this development by poorly designed rules which are tailored only to the needs of the larger companies. this report strives to create the most favourable regulatory, social and fiscal environment for small transport companies, so that they too can adapt and take advantage of the opportunities offered by these new technologies. the n-va meps therefore support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on new opportunities for small transport companies, including collaborative business models. while there are several interesting elements in this resolution, i would like to emphasise paragraph 37 in which the european parliament expresses concern about whether there are still grounds for exempting light commercial vehicles from the application of a number of european rules, given the increasing use of light commercial vehicles in the international transport of goods. i ask the commission to look into this matter without delay. the use of these small trucks, which are exempt from a large number of rules, leads to a very harmful distortion of competition and deplorable working conditions for the drivers of these vehicles.
in writing. ‒ smes play a very important role in our society. in the field of passenger and freight transport, they fill the gaps that cannot be filled by the larger players. think of areas that can only be reached by car. this is a concrete example of how small transport companies can respond to the needs and requirements of the citizen. however, it is often more difficult for smes than for larger players to make the necessary efforts to do so in an environmentally friendly and financially viable way. therefore, opportunities must be created for these smaller companies. the report was initially very market-oriented, but under the influence of the green group it has become more social, more sustainable and more environmentally friendly. some of our additions concern a combination of cooperation models with regard to, among other things, sustainability and the environment, the need for a regulatory framework for collaborative platforms, linking up with sustainable urban mobility plans and, finally, the development of alternatives to car use. the greens therefore agree with this, but also want a distinction to be made between non-profit enterprises and those which aim at maximising profits.
in writing. ‒ all the companies in question play a crucial role in the transport of passengers and goods by adding fuel to the wheels of a mobility that has historically been structured by the 'big boys'. through better local market knowledge, greater proximity to the customer and/or often agility and innovation, small businesses improve individual passenger transport, especially during the fateful last mile in densely populated areas. similarly, in landlocked areas where the construction of railway infrastructure or the organisation of public transport would be too costly, the private car is often the only means of transport available to certain categories of the population. small transport companies are therefore at the heart of european mobility. but they are full of talents who need a favourable environment to develop. this is where the regulator can and must do its job by creating the most favourable regulatory, social and fiscal environment possible. this will enable small transport enterprises to turn the many challenges they face today, most notably the ict revolution, into opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the main engine of the european economy and because in 2014 they represented 99.8% of all non-financial enterprises and provided two out of three jobs.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution, the european parliament takes stock of the parliamentary elections in belarus on 12 september 2016. the situation in belarus with regard to respect for human rights is very worrying and i therefore support the resolution of parliament criticising the situation in belarus. the abuses cited include the electoral defects noted by international observers and the presence of only two opposition representatives in parliament, whose election is more likely to be seen as an appointment. the european parliament also called for comprehensive electoral reform, the release of political prisoners and respect for democratic principles and human rights.
in writing. - i voted for this text. i believe that any country that sets up a nuclear force must adhere to international nuclear and environmental safety criteria and principles, and that the government of belarus, which assumes full responsibility for the safety and security of nuclear installations on its territory, must fulfil its obligations both to its own people and to neighbouring countries. the establishment, operation and decommissioning of nuclear installations must be governed by the principles of openness and transparency. we acknowledge the progress made by belarus when comparing the 2016 parliamentary elections with the previous elections. we note that the opposition will have two representatives in the newly elected parliament. however, it is regrettable that these elections do not respect several basic international standards for free and democratic elections and are not in line with the country's electoral code!
in writing. ‒ today the n-va delegation adopted a draft resolution condemning the situation in belarus. on 11 september, elections were held in belarus which were far from democratic and transparent. despite some negligible reforms in the organisation of these elections, the newly elected parliament cannot be seen as a democratic reflection of the belarusian people. the situation in the country remains worrying for the rest of us. we call on lukashenko to orient his foreign policy more towards the west and to insist on democratic reforms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus, convinced that belarus has not made sufficient progress in defending democratic values. by signing this resolution, i join the european parliament in its commitment to 'work in the interests of the belarusian people, supporting their democratic aspirations and initiatives and contributing to the country's stable, democratic and prosperous future'. with my colleagues in the european parliament, we also urge belarus, which still applies the death penalty, to 'join a global moratorium on the use of the death penalty and thus set the first milestone on the road to its final abolition'.
in writing. - i voted for this text. i believe that any country that sets up a nuclear force must adhere to international nuclear and environmental safety criteria and principles, and that the government of belarus, which assumes full responsibility for the safety and security of nuclear installations on its territory, must fulfil its obligations both to its own people and to neighbouring countries. the establishment, operation and decommissioning of nuclear installations must be governed by the principles of openness and transparency. we acknowledge the progress made by belarus when comparing the 2016 parliamentary elections with the previous elections. we note that the opposition will have two representatives in the newly elected parliament. however, it is regrettable that these elections do not respect several basic international standards for free and democratic elections and are not in line with the country's electoral code!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the 2016 parliamentary elections were assessed by the osce/odihr as efficiently organised, but there are still some long-standing systemic deficiencies, including restrictions in the legal framework for political rights and fundamental freedoms.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the alde group will vote with conviction on the agreement reached with the council on the 2017 budget. no budget, however good, fully meets our expectations and it even contains provisions that are difficult to swallow. i am referring to the 76 additional posts for the political groups. i also say very clearly that we can meet in this budget, at least partially, the priorities that are ours. we support the priority given to youth by increasing the appropriations for the mobility of students and apprentices and the 500 million to combat youth unemployment. we support the increase in funding for smes by allocating an additional 50 million to the cosme programme. we support the strengthening of research and development capacity through the additional funding allocated to horizon 2020. we support the additional appropriations allocated to the connecting europe facility. we support the additional funds provided to help farmers affected by the russian embargo, in particular milk producers. and we support the unprecedented effort to tackle the migration crisis and strengthen security within the european union. i could go on at length explaining the reasons for our satisfaction, but i would prefer at this stage to thank the architects of this agreement, which - i must confess - at a certain point i did not think possible. i would like to begin by thanking commissioner georgieva, whose departure we all regret, for the quality of her draft budget and the intelligence of letter of amendment no 1, which is in fact the real basis of this agreement. i would like to thank the european parliament delegation and in particular the two rapporteurs, mr geier and mr tarand, who, in symbiosis with mr arthuis, have shown a rare tenacity and great efficiency. and finally, i would like to thank the slovak presidency, which, after a start which i found laborious and which even provoked my anger, has managed to rise to the level required to finalise this agreement. i thank her and i commend her. in short, i commend the efficiency of all those who remained around the table and who finally succeeded in arriving at the result which i support today with my whole group.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, in this matter of the multiannual financial framework, we were faced with three essential questions. first question: is there a need for revision? the european parliament has always said yes, and it took a strong determination on its part to ask for it, and that was done when our assembly approved the good report by mr olbrycht and mrs thomas. secondly, we needed a good legislative proposal from the commission, and you, mrs georgieva, have met our expectations: there was a legislative proposal from the commission and i said as soon as we heard it that it was a good basis for discussion to reach an agreement. the second thing was that the council had to show a positive attitude, and i have to say to the slovak presidency that it has happily surprised me. we did not expect such a positive attitude on the part of the council in relation to our request, which was echoed by the commission. secondly, are additional resources needed? i know! the current budget is too tight, the financial framework does not allow us to meet the urgent needs we are facing. are there any additional means? i know! are they well affected? i know! they are in line with the right priorities, both youth employment and the management of migration pressure and security. is that enough? i think not, and i think in particular, mr president-in-office, that the corset you are making for heading 1a is not wise. this is an area in which to practice only by redeployment seems to me to be a mistake in relation to the requirements. thirdly, is there a need for greater flexibility? i know! is there one that's being proposed? i know! is that enough? i think we can do a little better and i think that the demands we made in the olbrycht and thomas reports were more reasonable than those you have retained. i wish you good luck and good work on reaching an agreement because i hope we will.
madam president, the ghana agreement before us today was concluded in 2007 and signed only nine years later. why the long wait? because negotiations which are regional negotiations have been set up. these regional negotiations include a major country, nigeria, which is the leading economic power. today, when we should be putting all our energy towards this regional agreement, you choose to favour interim bilateral agreements such as the one with ghana. these interim agreements, mrs jude kirton-darling, as she said, are outdated agreements. so rather than putting our energy into outdated agreements, as they have been presented to us today, i would argue that we should not vote for this interim agreement and that we should work to make the regional agreement a success. let's put our energy into this regional agreement, rather than kill it with an interim agreement.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. never before has the eu and the us negotiated such a high level of protection for the exchange of personal data for the fight against terrorism and organised crime. we are still a target of terrorism. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. i would stress that data protection and the fight against terrorism are not mutually exclusive and that a common data protection framework will lead to better cooperation. the critics are now trying to torpedo the overarching agreement by referring it to the european court of justice. this may sound noble, but it's nothing more than a delaying device. delay is perpetuating the present situation, which is much worse. in addition, the agreement is guaranteed to be continuously monitored and regularly evaluated. the agreement will also not enter into force until the us has fully implemented it. i therefore call on everyone not to support the referral to the court of justice. the rapporteur has my full support.
in writing. this is not a matter to be taken lightly. barroso, kroes, this week's endocrine disruptors case, the multiple scandals centred on the commission, all give a disastrous image of the european institutions and a failing ethics! the internal procedures of the european parliament, when the new commission is appointed and during its term of office, and the transparency obligations of the members of the commission must be addressed. the verification of the absence of conflict of interest cannot be put on the same level as the assessment of the candidate's competence. it must therefore be a prerequisite for the hearing. the control of declarations of financial interests and, more broadly, of potential conflicts of interest concerning the members of the commission must extend beyond the mere procedure for appointing the commission. i also expect the commission to make a series of amendments to its code of conduct and declarations of interests to ensure that they contain sufficient information to assess the financial interests of commissioners and that parliament is informed of any changes.
on behalf of the group of the european right mr president, i would like to emphasise that all human beings are born free and equal and have rights. diversity is the basis of a viable society. europe has a duty to promote and protect these principles effectively where and when necessary. living free and equal should be for everyone. some groups and individuals experience more than others that their experience of equality and freedom is under pressure. lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, intersex, or lgbti, for short, are such a vulnerable group. ten years ago, the yogyakarta principles were drafted by a group of international human rights experts. they provide an overview of international principles and human rights, specifically with regard to sexual orientation and identity. ten years on, the concerns expressed in the jogjakarta principles are still as relevant. in many eu countries, lgbti people are discriminated against or stigmatised. progress has been made, but there is still much work to be done. culture, tradition or religion can never be an excuse for discrimination, not against lgbti people, but also against other groups, such as religious minorities, ethnic minorities, people with disabilities. tolerance is not enough. inclusion must be our goal.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, madam high representative, i thank you for your commitment to africa, and in particular to the great lakes region. as you said, the current political situation is dangerous, and it is especially so for the people who have suffered from violence in the democratic republic of congo for years. in recent months, however, this violence has only increased and there is a risk that it will increase even more. yes, transition is important, you said. but this transition must be based on an inclusive agreement and, as you said, the work of cenco is important in order to be able to engage in this dialogue which is truly inclusive and respectful of the constitution, it should be recalled. yes, we need an independent ceni, which will effectively organise these elections. but above all, we must also fight against impunity. this resolution that we are presenting here in parliament, with a list of names that have indeed been taken up by both the united states and the ngo human rights watch, says that targeted sanctions are needed against these people. that is the message we want to send out here.
the commission is therefore proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. that's what they're hearing in the congo right now. kabila, realize that your mandate is over!, at demonstrations, in sports stadiums... and you know, mrs mogherini, that is what worries me most. we know that the people who are scanning this, the people who are being shown these phrases on social media right now, they're probably not going to be around at the end of this year. they will be killed, they will be imprisoned. the repression is a daily occurrence for our congolese people. and that's why i think it's very important that you send a strong signal. i thought your introduction was very brave, very concrete. i think our resolution is to the point. we want peace to return, we point out the responsibility of president kabila. a president's job is to protect people, to provide security, not to oppress. we as europe must ensure that the people who commit atrocities there are not allowed to enter our country. we must ensure that those responsible are brought to justice. mrs mogherini, i think it is very important that we now - because that is what everything is focused on and that date is on many agendas - make sure that calm returns around that time. and how can we do that? we must ensure that journalists and opposition figures are released, we must ensure that the date of the elections is fixed. fellas, it's almost the new year. i think each of us is almost busy with the new year's wishes, the new year's cards, good intentions. i have only one wish and that is that we give amani to the congolese, amani, peace, the best thing we can wish each other for the new year.
president, there is no such thing as a "woolly language" on president kabila. it needs clear language and clear, which sounds like this: mr. kabila, we reject your attempts to cling to power. we reject the decision to postpone the elections until april 2018. we support the demand of the centre and the opposition: elections by the end of 2017. kabila can no longer be part of the solution. the appointment of samy badibanga as prime minister is a transparent maneuver. either kabila steps down and holds elections for an interim president, or he starts an inclusive dialogue and offers a solution. that is why we support the efforts of the cenco bishops' conference to mediate. but words are not enough. why not start the procedure under article 96 of the cotonou agreement immediately? why not targeted sanctions for civil servants and military officers for the violations of their civil and human rights and finally, of course, the bigger picture: the only way to guarantee peace and security in the congo is through a dialogue between the countries of the great lakes region.
in writing. i fully support this resolution on the situation in the drc, which calls on president kabila to honour the promises made. according to the constitution, presidential elections must be held in 2016 and a president cannot stay in office for a third term. the congolese government is hiding behind the so-called impossibility of drawing up electoral lists on the basis of the population register and wants to postpone the elections by four years. since january 2015, hundreds of people have been killed, the authorities have cracked down on protesters and opposition, and people have been unlawfully jailed. the media is cut off, spontaneous strikes break out. the situation in the drc is deteriorating sharply and there are several reports of serious human rights violations. in eastern congo, the brutality (rape, child soldiers, etc.) continues to be widespread, often driven by conflicts over natural resources and minerals. despite various commitments and promises by the government, the results remain dismal. this resolution explicitly blames president kabila for the worrisome situation in his country and calls on him to urgently respect the constitution, call elections, allow freedom of expression (and demonstrations again) and respect democracy and the rule of law as agreed in the cotonou agreements.
in writing. the proposal amends an article of the union customs code, which has proved problematic in practice, and concerns goods which have temporarily left the territory of the union by sea or air.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 establishing the union customs code, as regards goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by sea or air. as things currently stand, there is no legal basis for requiring the presentation of goods which are unloaded or transhipped at the place where they are re-introduced into the customs territory of the union after temporarily leaving it. this makes it difficult for the customs authorities to control the goods. the proposal to amend article 136 aims to fill this legal vacuum, to guarantee equal treatment for all goods and to re-establish the legal basis provided for by the old customs code.
in writing. i voted in favour of the proposal to amend regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the customs code of the union (ccu) as regards goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by sea or air. this proposal will improve the efficiency of customs supervision. until now, the absence of a legally binding text has prevented the competent authorities of the em from implementing the provisions of article 136 of the cdu requiring the presentation to them of goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union. these customs authorities will now have enhanced controls to enable them to correctly collect import duties and other taxes, to properly apply non-tax measures such as veterinary or phytosanitary checks, and to correctly identify risks relating to goods arriving at their ports or airports. these measures are important and are in line with our efforts to strengthen consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's position at first reading of 1 december 2016 with a view to the adoption of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 establishing the union customs code as regards goods temporarily removed from the customs territory of the union by sea or air. the amendment of article 136 of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 allows for better account to be taken of the difference between non-union goods and union goods.
in writing. ‒ the full entry into force on 1 may 2016 of the provisions of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 october 2013 laying down the union customs code, as well as the implementing and delegated acts resulting therefrom, has brought to light certain shortcomings in the wording of the text. these provisions apply to the specific case where goods have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by direct route between two points in that territory by sea or air, without a stop outside the territory of the union. the absence of a clear legal basis for requiring the presentation of these goods to customs authorities makes it more difficult for the latter to monitor the goods. the current proposal to amend article 136 aims to fill this legal vacuum, to guarantee equal treatment for all goods and to re-establish the legal basis provided for by the old customs code.
in writing. the priip proposal introduces a series of measures to strengthen investor protection and rebuild consumer confidence in the financial services sector by increasing the transparency of the retail investment market. the regulation was adopted in 2014 and was due to enter into force on 1 january 2017. the commission has submitted a technical regulatory information document. in september 2016, the ep almost unanimously rejected the commission's rts. in order to allow the commission to present a revised rts and to avoid market uncertainty, the commission, in agreement with the ep and the council, postponed the implementation date by one year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponing the introduction of a key explanatory document (kid) given by investment providers to consumers because i believe that small investors need to be better informed about the risks, costs and potential performance of the investment products they are likely to buy. in the wake of the global financial crisis, the commission proposed to improve investor protection measures for the main investment products purchased by retail investors. this is a good initiative, but the complementary draft regulatory technical standards explaining the format and methodology used to establish the key information document (kid) clearly raised some problems of adequacy with the objectives pursued. for this reason, i think it is appropriate to postpone the introduction of this document until the european commission has put forward better proposals.
in writing. ‒ in 2014, the council and the european parliament decided to introduce a standardised key information document (kid) to help people make their investment decision in certain investment products. the commission should therefore be able to conclude that the measure is compatible with the internal market. the european commission had to adopt technical standards for the content and form of this kid. since the summer, the european parliament has repeatedly drawn the commission's attention to the shortcomings and gaps in the initial standards as adopted by the commission. yet, she stubbornly stuck to the original version. this forced parliament to reject the standards in september. as a result, the commission has had to develop new standards that insurers are required to comply with in principle from 1 january 2017 under the priips regulation. the commission has unfortunately made it impossible to implement these standards (which do not yet exist) and the priips regulation for insurers in a timely manner due to the commission's delay. the n-va meps therefore vote in favour of a one-year delay in the entry into force of this regulation.
in writing. as foreseen in regulation 1286/2014, a series of measures will have to be introduced in order to strengthen investment protection and restore consumer confidence in the financial services sector. to this end, a key information document will have to be drawn up. in view of the measures to be implemented and their technical nature, we were obliged, by a very large majority, to provide for a longer period for the application of this regulation. this should allow more adequate time for the actors to comply with the new requirements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents for insurance-based retail investment products as regards its date of application.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text by my distinguished colleague, mr beres, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents for insurance-based retail investment products, as regards its date of application.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this agreement, which provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of kiribati who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. i welcome the approval by the european parliament of the visa waiver agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati. this agreement will strengthen our links with kiribati in the framework of the acp-eu partnership. in this context, political dialogue between the union and kiribati on issues of common concern is of particular importance, and i would like to welcome the efforts of kiribati in the fight against violence and discrimination against women. finally, i would like to underline the commitment of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly to the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted in favour of the agreement on a reciprocal visa waiver for european and kiribati nationals by a large majority of 567 votes to 51, with 24 abstentions. this flexible visa regime for stays of less than 90 days, already provisionally applied since the signing of the agreement on 13 june 2016, benefits all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than gainful employment. the agreement strengthens the economic, cultural and political relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati, which are already governed by the cotonou agreement (acp-eu). another proof of their mutual commitment and good faith to the comprehensive economic partnership between the european union and 14 pacific countries. it is an additional means of continuing the political dialogue with kiribati on priority issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. in addition to bringing european and pacific peoples closer together, this new visa system will encourage potential investment and tourism development in these pacific archipelagos, which are visited by only 4000 tourists a year.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 1 december 2016 on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver. following the work on this subject in the committee responsible, i have come to the conclusion that this short-stay visa exemption is fully justified.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and this state are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, known as the cotonou agreement. the commission is also requested to provide the european parliament with the information it needs to assess the implementation of the agreement. such criteria include not only illegal immigration, public order and security, but also the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including, in particular, considerations relating to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this agreement which provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and solomon islands who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. i welcome the approval by the european parliament of the visa waiver agreement between the european union and the republic of the solomon islands. this agreement will strengthen our links with the solomon islands in the framework of the acp-eu partnership. the defence of human rights and the protection of the environment are among the issues on which the two partners are engaged in political dialogue. the european union is also partnering with civil society in the solomon islands, particularly in implementing the national development strategy. finally, i would like to underline the commitment of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly to the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 1 december 2016 on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver. following the work on this subject in the committee responsible, i have come to the conclusion that this short-stay visa exemption is fully justified.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and this state are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, known as the cotonou agreement. the commission is also requested to provide the european parliament with the information it needs to assess the implementation of the agreement. these criteria include not only illegal immigration, public order and security, but also the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including in particular considerations related to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this agreement, which provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and nationals of the federated states of micronesia who are travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. i welcome the approval by the european parliament of the visa waiver agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia. this agreement will enhance our links with the federated states of micronesia in the framework of the acp-eu partnership. as with other archipelagos for which visa liberalisation is now in force, this agreement should strengthen political dialogue, particularly on human rights and climate change issues. finally, i would like to underline the commitment of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly to the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 1 december 2016 on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver. following the work on this subject in the relevant commission, i have come to the conclusion that this short-stay visa exemption is fully justified.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and this state are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, known as the cotonou agreement. the commission is also requested to provide the european parliament with the information it needs to assess the implementation of the agreement. these criteria include not only illegal immigration, public order and security, but also the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including in particular considerations related to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this agreement which provides for a visa-free travel regime for citizens of the union and tuvalu nationals travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. i welcome the approval by the european parliament of the visa waiver agreement between the european union and tuvalu. this agreement will strengthen our links with this archipelago in the framework of the acp-eu partnership. in particular, this partnership should further strengthen political dialogue on human rights and climate change issues. finally, i would like to underline the commitment of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly to the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 1 december 2016 on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver. following the work on this subject in the committee responsible, i have come to the conclusion that this short-stay visa exemption is fully justified.
in writing. ‒ relations between the european union and this state are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, known as the cotonou agreement. the commission is also requested to provide the european parliament with the information it needs to assess the implementation of the agreement. these criteria include not only illegal immigration, public order and security, but also the union's external relations with the third country concerned, including in particular considerations related to respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this agreement, which provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union and of the marshall islands when they travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a stay of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.
in writing. i welcome the approval by the european parliament of the visa waiver agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands. this agreement will enhance our links with the marshall islands in the framework of the acp-eu partnership. the strengthening of the partnership should benefit cooperation between the partners on key issues such as gender equality and climate change. finally, i would like to underline the commitment of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly to the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution of 1 december 2016 on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver. following the work on this subject in the committee responsible, i have come to the conclusion that this short-stay visa exemption is fully justified.
in writing. ‒ this agreement on visa waiver for short stays is a concrete result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands - which has strong political significance in the framework of the cotonou agreement - and an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement could have positive effects by simplifying travel conditions for entrepreneurs, facilitating investment and tourism. the marshall islands' economy is based mainly on the service sector with some fishing and agriculture. the republic of the marshall islands has few natural resources and imports far outstrip exports. the united states is by far the largest contributor to the national budget under a free association agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which proposes that the european solidarity fund can provide aid more quickly and effectively following natural disasters in the eu. given the scale and severity of some disasters, it is important to be able to improve the responsiveness and efficiency of emergency funding in the member states. although the fund underwent a major reform in 2014, efforts can still be made to reduce the time taken to process applications from beneficiaries, which is often considered too long.
in writing. ‒ the solidarity fund is an instrument to provide assistance to member states affected by a major natural disaster. it goes without saying that the union must be able to act with urgency in such cases. the n-va supports the findings of this report and is convinced of the importance of this expenditure when it can help victims of natural disasters to recover and get back on their feet in a timely and effective manner.
in writing. in 2002, following the tragic floods, the european union set up the european union solidarity fund. the fund is intended for both member states and candidate countries and helps countries affected by natural disasters. while it is impossible to foresee all emergencies and disasters, it is nevertheless possible to improve the management of their consequences. the report highlights various aspects of management, such as the speed of action by the solidarity fund, the need for a preventive policy that goes hand in hand with the necessary complementarity between the eusf and other european instruments, in particular cohesion policy, and the effective collaboration between the national level and regional or local authorities. the european union solidarity fund is an immediate expression of the union's solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters. it is therefore essential to evaluate this instrument with a view to its continuous improvement. i therefore welcome this report without any hesitation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's position which aims to change the way the european union solidarity fund operates. among the recommendations made by the european parliament, i would like to highlight the possibility for member states to make a joint request for assistance in the event of a crossborder disaster. i think this is a sensible amendment. the european parliament also voted in favour of reducing processing times for applications from six to four weeks and raising the threshold for advance payments from 10% to 15%. these are important demands which i hope will be implemented as soon as possible in european legislation.
in writing. ‒ following the tragic floods of 2002, the european union set up the european union solidarity fund (regulation (ec) no 2012/2002). it is an immediate expression of the union's solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters. it is addressed not only to the member states but also to the candidate countries. i believe that better communication to the public throughout the process is needed to enable beneficiaries or interested persons to follow the procedure better for each specific application. this could be organised at european commission level, provided there is a good flow of information between the different operational levels.
in writing. ‒ since the european parliament's legal service has expressed reservations about the compatibility of this agreement with the european treaties, i voted in favour of the request for the opinion of the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ although it was tabled by my group, i voted without hesitation against this resolution requesting the opinion of the european court of justice on the compatibility of the framework agreement with the european treaties. under the guise of rigour, it was in reality nothing more than a last-ditch delaying manoeuvre to prevent the approval of the framework agreement. i am glad that a majority of this house rejected this text. clearly, some are more concerned about a hypothetical non-compliance than about increasing citizens' rights and enhancing their security.
in writing. i voted against this resolution seeking the opinion of the court of justice of the european union on the compatibility of the framework agreement with the treaties. such a request would have had the effect of suspending the implementation of the agreement and, ultimately, would have been liable to jeopardise its conclusion. this agreement brings the personal data of european citizens to a level of protection for which the european union has been fighting for years. it seems to me therefore unacceptable to prevent the immediate implementation of an agreement which represents an undeniable step forward for europeans.
in writing. ‒ i share the rapporteur's view that there is legal uncertainty as to the compatibility of the envisaged agreement with the provisions of the treaties, in particular article 16 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in particular articles 7 and 8 thereof, article 52 (1) thereof as regards the right of individuals to the protection of personal data, and article 47 thereof as regards access to an effective judicial remedy.
in writing. - i abstained on this text. it provides protection (including the right of access and rectification under certain conditions) to european citizens whose data is exchanged with the united states in the fight against crime and terrorism. this is an improvement because in some cases this protection was weak. however, the european parliament's legal service considers that the agreement does not respect the treaties or the charter of fundamental rights, in particular because it does not provide sufficient legal remedies before the us authorities and it excludes the additional safeguards that the data protection directive could bring with its entry into force in 2018. i also supported the resolutions requesting the opinion of the court of justice on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the umbrella agreement on the protection of personal data transferred and processed in the context of the prevention and detection of criminal offences, including terrorist offences. this was a longstanding request from the european parliament. this historic agreement, negotiated for several years between the european commission and the united states, aims to guarantee a high level of protection of personal information and to strengthen cooperation between the united states and the european union in the prevention and detection of criminal offences. the agreement does not allow any transfer of data. once in force, it will strengthen the safeguards for the protection of all personal data transmitted by judicial authorities on both sides of the atlantic on the basis of other agreements, such as the eu/us air passenger name record (pnr) agreement. it will also put european and us citizens on an equal footing before us courts, as it will allow european citizens to bring legal proceedings in the event of misuse of their personal data or if they are subsequently made public, a right previously reserved for us citizens only.
in writing. i voted in favour of the umbrella agreement, an agreement between the european union and the united states to strengthen the protection of personal data of european citizens when transferred to the united states by judicial and police authorities in the context of criminal cooperation. this agreement does not constitute a basis for data transfers, but adds additional safeguards to the protection of personal data already transferred on the basis of other agreements. among other things, european citizens will now have access to legal remedies in the event of misuse of their data in the us. this is a historic victory for europeans. this was a longstanding request of the european parliament.
in writing. i supported the us-eu agreement on the protection of personal information processed in criminal matters, as it is essential that the eu and the us are on the same page when it comes to protecting the data of european citizens in the us and work hand in hand, as the eu has been doing for years. the principles and safeguards established when personal data are to be transferred for criminal purposes will also apply to private entities, such as european aviation authorities, in the context of the pnr. another important development of this agreement is that it also includes bilateral agreements between the member states and the united states.
in writing. ‒ following calls by the european parliament, the council adopted on 3 december 2010 a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the united states of america on the protection of personal data in the context of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters (hereinafter referred to as the 'framework agreement') concerning the protection of personal data in the context of the transfer and processing of such data for the purposes of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism. on 28 march 2011, the commission opened negotiations with the us department of justice. parliament has been kept regularly informed of the progress of the negotiations, in accordance with article 108 (10) of the tfeu, and your rapporteur has drawn up a series of working papers to facilitate the discussions in the libe committee. i finally abstained on the final text, as i did not receive sufficient guarantees as to the effectiveness of the manoeuvre.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the conclusion of this interim bilateral agreement. it was concluded in 2007 and in the meantime negotiations for a regional agreement have been opened. i therefore think it is better to concentrate our efforts on reaching a regional agreement, rather than on this obsolete bilateral agreement.
in writing. ghana and the eu have important trade relations. last year, trade between ghana and the eu accounted for 20 percent of ghana's foreign trade. in view of the delay in the conclusion of the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement and in order to ensure the continuity of trade relations between the eu and ghana, it is desirable to adopt a temporary economic partnership agreement. in this way, trade between ghana and the eu is guaranteed, the framework for promoting economic investment in ghana remains stable and phytosanitary assistance to ghanaian exporters is maintained.
in writing. ‒ on thursday, meps approved the 2007 interim economic agreement with ghana by 375 votes to 220, with 46 abstentions. since june 2014, the eu and west africa (which includes 16 countries) have been trying to ratify a regional economic partnership (rep) agreement for economic growth and free trade. however, the partnership still needs the approval of nigeria, the gambia and mauritania before it can be ratified, leaving the other 13 signatory countries to do so voluntarily. this could have had damaging consequences for ghana if the current ghana-eu economic agreement, which expires at the end of the year, had not been followed up. the european parliament has therefore made the right decision in supporting the position of its rapporteur, mr fjellner, in favour of free customs-free access to the european market for ghanaian products. with over 20% of external trade going to the european union, amounting to €5.4 billion in 2015, this temporary solution was essential for ghana's stability, development and economic growth.
in writing. ‒ by signing the interim economic partnership agreement (iepa) with the eu, ghana may avoid tariff problems, but it also sacrifices the regional integration of ecowas. to keep out cheap eu products, ecowas members might raise their tariffs on ghana. after a five-year moratorium, ghana will have to release eu imports, which will only increase competition. it also contains a clause which makes a rapid opening to the liberalization of services and other disciplines of free trade. knowing that ghana is a privileged partner of the united kingdom, one can only guess at the consequences of brexit. this is why we cannot call the iepa a step up, but rather a pit into which the whole epa-eu ecowas process is falling. the fact that the commission's trade dg is behind this is worrying. the promising integration process is on the wane and the agreement is aimed primarily at the economic interests of the major european players. it is also contrary to european principles such as policy coherence in development cooperation and the agreed development goals. ghana also had the option of the gsp+ regime, with special preferential tariffs for vulnerable countries. this agreement has such far-reaching implications that i cannot possibly approve it.
in writing. - i voted against the fjellner report. i think it is high time we reviewed our approach to agreements and considered africa as our dumping ground, with the great risk of impoverishing the local and regional population by unbalancing the trade and economic flow of the countries concerned!
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which proposes to mobilise the 2016 contingency margin of up to eur 240 million to respond to the migration situation, the needs of migrants and the security situation.
in writing. it is necessary to mobilise the contingency margin in accordance with article 13 of regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 on the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 setting a contingency margin of up to 0,03% of the union's gross national income. this will allow for the necessary and adequate actions to be undertaken to respond to the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis, by increasing the commitment appropriations of heading 3 in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 relating to 'security and citizenship' to an amount of eur 240,1 million above the ceiling for commitments under this heading.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the contingency margin in 2016. indeed, all other financial possibilities to deal with unforeseen circumstances within the commitment ceiling of heading 3 (security and citizenship) of the 2016 multiannual financial framework having been examined, it was necessary to mobilise this contingency margin to meet the needs arising from the migration, refugee and security crisis.
in writing. ‒ it was just an annex validation that our policy expert office gave the green light for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports a budgetary adjustment aimed in particular at meeting the needs in the field of migration in view of the migration situation faced by the european union. it therefore seeks to increase the level of commitment appropriations, in particular to provide emergency aid of eur 130 million for the asylum, migration and integration fund. an amount of eur 70 million is also provided for the internal security fund.
in writing. ‒ i naturally voted in favour of the report by josé manuel fernandes on draft amending budget no 4/2016, which, like amending budgets no 5 and no 6, is part of the overall agreement between the european parliament and the council on the 2017 budget. in particular, this draft amending budget increases by more than eur 240 million the commitment appropriations under heading 3, 'security and citizenship', which i consider both necessary and urgent. i would be perfectly happy if, in addition, €7.284 million were not returned to the member states because of delays in the implementation of the cohesion funds. the payment crisis will only get worse from 2019 onwards.
in writing. the european union is constantly being forced by the economic situation to be vigilant about the budgets it allocates. this is exactly what is dealt with in draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the union for the financial year 2016. this concerns an update of appropriations to take account of recent developments in the migration and security situation, the reduction in payment and commitment appropriations resulting from the global transfer, the extension of the duration of the european fund for strategic investments, the change in the establishment plan of frontex and the update of own resources. the draft amendment aims in particular to reduce the level of payment appropriations on budget lines relating to economic, social and territorial cohesion, thus reducing national contributions. it also reduces several budget lines for sustainable growth. on the contrary, this draft amending budget increases the commitment appropriations for security and citizenship and the appropriations for the instrument for emergency aid within the union. the staff of frontex is also being strengthened. such adjustments are necessary for the european union to act in a fair and appropriate manner. i therefore welcome the report on draft amending budget no 4/2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budgets no 4, 5 and 6 of the european union for the financial year 2016. amending budget no 4 concerns the updating of appropriations to take account of recent developments in the migration and security situation, the reduction in payment and commitment appropriations resulting from the global transfer, the extension of the duration of the european fund for strategic investments, the modification of the frontex establishment plan and the updating of revenue appropriations. amending budget no 5 concerns the implementation of decision 2014/335/eu on the system of own resources following the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of the decision on 1 october 2016. finally, amending budget no 6 concerns the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide aid to germany.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution on amending budget no 5/2016, which implements minor technical changes in the own resources system, which have no effect on the overall revenue or expenditure side of the union.
in writing. council decision 2014/335/eu, euratom on the system of own resources of the european union has led to a reduction in the cost of collecting the union's traditional own resources, a reduction in the vat call rates for some member states and gross reductions in the annual contributions based on gross national income for others. amending budget no 5/2016 aims to incorporate, in the revenue part of the 2016 budget of the union, the effect of the adjustments to the own resources linked to the implementation of decision 2014/335/eu with retroactive effect to the financial years 2014, 2015 and 2016. the draft amending budget no 5/2016 therefore leads to a modification of the contributions of the individual member states, but has no effect on the overall revenue or expenditure side of the union. these reasons led me to vote in favour of draft amending budget no 5/2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budgets no 4, 5 and 6 of the european union for the financial year 2016. amending budget no 4 concerns the updating of appropriations to take account of recent developments in the migration and security situation, the reduction in payment and commitment appropriations resulting from the global transfer, the extension of the duration of the european fund for strategic investments, the modification of the frontex establishment plan and the updating of revenue appropriations. amending budget no 5 concerns the implementation of decision 2014/335/eu on the system of own resources following the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of the decision on 1 october 2016. finally, amending budget no 6 concerns the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide aid to germany.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: implementation of decision 2014/335/eu on the system of own resources following the closure of the ratification process and the entry into force of the decision on 1 october 2016.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this proposal to mobilise eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations for germany from the european union solidarity fund under the 2016 budget following the floods in lower bavaria in may and june 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide financial assistance of eur 31 475 125 in connection with floods in lower bavaria, in particular the district of rottal-inn, which occurred in germany in may and june 2016. i think it is essential to show solidarity with the affected area. the floods unfortunately claimed the lives of seven people, more than 47 000 people in lower bavaria were affected and more than 2 000 people were unable to return to their homes two months after the events. they also resulted in the destruction of public infrastructure, private infrastructure, private homes and agricultural installations.
in writing. following particularly severe flooding in the region of niederbayern (lower bavaria) in may and june 2016, germany submitted an application to the solidarity fund on 19 august 2016. the floods caused considerable damage to public and private infrastructure, private homes and agricultural facilities. in addition, more than 47 000 people were affected, and two months after the disaster, more than 2 000 people were still unable to return to their homes. in view of the scale of this disaster, i have decided to vote in favour of an amount of eur 31 475 125 in commitment and payment appropriations from the solidarity fund, not only because the request fulfils the conditions for granting financial assistance, but also because i am convinced that the damage cannot remain unaddressed. the eu combines the values of solidarity and responsibility, so it was only natural that it should act as effectively as possible in such a situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for germany, and more specifically for lower bavaria, in view of the sudden and violent floods that occurred in may and june 2016. this natural disaster affected more than 47 000 people, including many families who were unable to return to their homes. the town of simbach am inn was almost completely destroyed and was without a municipal water supply for three weeks. the cost of the urgent emergency measures is estimated by the german authorities at eur 94.196 million, and the total amount of the proposed aid is eur 31 475 125. may the german people put these tragic events behind them as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance in connection with a natural disaster (floods in lower bavaria, in particular the district of rottal-inn) in germany in may and june 2016. these flash floods and flash floods have resulted in the destruction of public infrastructure, private infrastructure, private homes and agricultural facilities. seven people have lost their lives, more than 47 000 people living in lower bavaria have been affected and more than 2 000 are unable to return to their homes two months after the events. the town of simbach am inn was almost completely destroyed and was without municipal water supply for three weeks. there were also reports of significant damage to businesses and agricultural facilities, as well as heavy damage to basic infrastructure, water supply, sanitation and the electricity grid.
in writing. ‒ this draft amending budget no 6/2016 concerns the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in connection with the floods which occurred in germany in may and june 2016. i approved that.
in writing. draft amending budget no 6/2016 concerns the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016. in response to this series of major natural disasters, the commission proposed to amend the 2016 budget to provide assistance to member states in the event of a natural disaster with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment and the economy. the amount now stands at eur 31 475 125, both in commitment and payment appropriations. the european parliament decided to endorse the council's position on draft amending budget no 6/2016 as it stood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of draft amending budgets no 4, 5 and 6 of the european union for the financial year 2016. amending budget no 4 concerns the updating of appropriations to take account of recent developments in the migration and security situation, the reduction in payment and commitment appropriations resulting from the global transfer, the extension of the duration of the european fund for strategic investments, the modification of the frontex establishment plan and the updating of revenue appropriations. amending budget no 5 concerns the implementation of decision 2014/335/eu on the system of own resources following the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of the decision on 1 october 2016. finally, amending budget no 6 concerns the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide aid to germany.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to amend the 2016 budget by increasing article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment and the economy' by eur 31 475 125, both in commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. the european union solidarity fund is a special instrument defined in the mff regulation, and the commitment and payment appropriations in question must be entered in the budget beyond the mff ceilings. we therefore voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this item which proposes to allocate the contingency margin for 2017 to respond to the migration situation, the needs of refugees and the internal security situation.
in writing. in order to respond to unforeseen circumstances such as the challenges related to the migration, refugee and security crisis, it is important to mobilise the contingency margin of eur 1 176 030 960 in commitment appropriations beyond the ceiling for commitments under heading 3 security and citizenship and eur 730 120 000 in commitment appropriations beyond the ceiling for commitments under heading 4 europe in the world of the multiannual financial framework. this is necessary to cover the difference between the level of the expenditure ceiling for headings 3 and 4 and the additional unforeseen needs estimated for 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the 2017 contingency margin of eur 1 164.4 million to supplement the commitment appropriations for expenditure under heading 3 of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 and beyond the ceiling for commitments, which is eur 2 578 million in current prices. i would point out that new financial needs, linked to the internal security crises and current humanitarian, migration and refugee challenges, could emerge in 2017.
in writing. ‒ it was a simple annex validation for which our political experts gave their green light.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which supports the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for eur 530 million in commitment appropriations to finance measures in favour of migrants and refugees.
in writing. the flexibility instrument is intended to allow the management of expenditure which could not be financed within the limits of the ceilings available for one or more headings. the objective here is to mobilise the flexibility instrument to complement the financing of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017 by eur 530 million to finance measures in the field of migration, refugees and security. i decided to vote in favour of the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for commitment appropriations because, as things stand, i believe that the union must have the means to act in order to meet its responsibilities. in the name of the principle of solidarity and respect for human rights, it is a human imperative to make progress in the management of this humanitarian crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to deal with the current migration, refugee and security crisis. eur 530.0 million will be allocated to finance measures to deal with the current migration, refugee and security crisis. the breakdown will be as follows: eur 238,3 million from 2017, eur 91,0 million in 2018, eur 141,9 million in 2019 and eur 58,8 million in 2020.
in writing. ‒ i therefore approved the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 530 million in commitment appropriations. we also approved the proposed allocation of the corresponding payment appropriations of eur 238,3 million for the financial year 2017, eur 91 million for the financial year 2018, eur 141,9 million for the financial year 2019 and eur 58,8 million for the financial year 2020.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this proposal which is not linked to a particular disaster. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the financial contribution for the disaster relief programme to eur 50 million. it is a direct follow-up to a new provision in the amending regulation which aims to speed up the disbursement of aid to the affected countries by granting an advance before the final allocation decision is taken, in order to enhance the effectiveness of the fund.
in writing. the aim of the solidarity fund is to enable the european union to respond to emergency situations in order to express solidarity with people affected by natural disasters. the proposal for a decision aims to add a maximum amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations to the general budget of the union for the year 2017 in order to be able to pay out rapid and efficient aid advances in the event of a natural disaster in 2017, in advance of the final allocation decision. the amount of such advance shall not exceed 10% of the amount of the financial contribution provided for and shall not exceed eur 30 million, on the one hand, and the maximum amount granted to the fund shall not exceed eur 500 000 000 on the other hand. i support this proposal for a decision which enables the eu to face up to its responsibilities and to show solidarity with countries affected by natural disasters. it seems to me important that it can act as quickly as possible in order to limit the damage and improve the safety and conditions of the affected population.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for the purpose of payment of advances under the general budget of the union for 2017. this fund is intended to deal with emergencies resulting from natural disasters. it is one of the european union's important solidarity tools, without which the affected regions would not have been able to recover. this requires that the affected countries receive an advance before the final decision on allocation is taken, so that they can provide effective help to the affected citizens and can do so quickly. each year, a maximum of eur 50 million will be entered in the budget in commitment and payment appropriations to ensure the timely availability of budgetary resources. this is both a positive and a necessary decision.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the text. this proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council is not linked to any particular disaster. the commission is also proposing to increase the amount of the financial contribution to the european union's budget for the period from the end of the financial year to the end of the financial year.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report on the joint draft general budget of the eu for 2017 as approved by the conciliation committee, which includes the call for the 2017 flexibility instrument to provide €530 million in commitment appropriations to address the migration and security situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted overall in favour of this 2017 budget, even though i was and remain radically opposed to the creation of 76 additional posts for the political groups of the european parliament; this reckless increase in the number of political group staff leads to the elimination of an equivalent number of posts in the european parliament's administration, which i consider unjustifiable. apart from that, i am pleased to see in this budget the priorities which my political group has always defended, and in particular the priority for youth through increased funds to combat youth unemployment but also funds to promote the mobility of students and apprentices. our priorities to encourage initiatives for small and medium-sized enterprises, to support research and infrastructure projects, and to manage the migration crisis and to strengthen security within the eu's borders are also met.
in writing. ‒ meps from the n-va strongly support spending to respond to the migration and security crisis, but find that the 2017 budget does not place sufficient emphasis on this. less than 10% of the eu budget will be spent on measures to strengthen security and asylum policies in 2017. the nva delegation therefore also made proposals to increase the resources for europol and frontex, the european border and coast guard. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament, including the provision of information and consultation services. the same is true of the accession aid to turkey, where we have seen a clear democratic decline rather than progress in recent years. that money will disappear again into the turkish autocratic cesspool. it is high time that the eu focused on those policy areas where it has a clear added value.
in writing. as for the report on the general budget of the union for 2017, i voted in favour of the joint draft general budget of the eu for the financial year 2017 because it perfectly encompasses what the union needs to face its challenges and responsibilities effectively. on the one hand, this project will enable the union to respond adequately to the challenges posed, such as the management of migration (for which an amount of eur 5.3 billion is provided), the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the protection of the union's external borders, and the partnership with the union's neighbouring regions and other third countries. on the other hand, we will have to be able to take on the political priorities of the union, such as jobs, growth and investment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of approving the 2017 eu budget despite the fact that the agreement reached with the council falls far short of the position endorsed and defended by our parliament. the commission has also been successful in implementing the new eu-funded programme for the environment, climate change and energy, which is the first of its kind in the world. i regret, however, that the council has not shown itself to be more ambitious, particularly in dealing with migration flows. it is essential that the european union takes responsibility for welcoming newcomers with dignity. in general, i maintain that it is necessary to increase the share of the european union's genuinely own budgetary resources and to bring it up to a maximum of 40% of the european budget dependent on national contributions.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the text of my colleague indrek tarand approving the joint text agreed by the conciliation committee, which consists of all the following documents: the list of budget lines which have not been amended in relation to the draft budget or the council's position; the summary amounts by heading of the financial framework; the 'line by line' amounts of all budget lines; a consolidated document indicating the amounts and the final text of all lines amended during the conciliation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for efforts to help the many victims of the earthquakes in italy and, more generally, underlines the need for further measures to better prepare the institutions to deal with such disasters in the future. it called on the commission to consider replacing the current calculation method used by the solidarity fund with one based on a cumulative calculation of the damage caused by several natural disasters occurring in the same region in the same year. it also stresses the importance of research and development in disaster prevention and management and calls on the member states to cooperate more closely with its institutions. it also encourages its member states to optimise the use of eu funds, in particular by investing in consolidation and sustainable development for reconstruction activities.
in the meantime, the commission has been working on a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. after the devastating earthquake last summer, central italy was hit by a series of severe earthquakes. as a result, the overall infrastructure in the area has been severely damaged. residential areas and villages have been demolished, the rich cultural and historical heritage has been destroyed, economic life has been disrupted and many thousands of people have been made homeless. the reconstruction will cost many billions of euros and take a long time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european funds can help to speed up the repair of housing and to make the neighbourhoods and infrastructure more resilient to natural disasters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the situation in italy following the earthquakes that struck that country. the recent earthquakes in italy have left more than 400 injured and 290 dead. i would stress paragraph 7 of that resolution which calls on the commission to consider excluding all investment in earthquake-resistant and sustainable reconstruction from the calculation of national deficits under the stability and growth pact. this is proof that the stability and growth pact, in its present form, can cause difficulties in investment spending in some member states.
in writing. ‒ the n-va acknowledges the emergency situation in italy following the successive earthquakes of 24 august and 30 october 2016 and deeply regrets the loss of life caused by the natural disaster and the damage caused to infrastructure, heritage, economic activities, agriculture, tourism and industries. we call on the european commission, among other things, to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european solidarity fund provides rapid and effective financial support and to ensure that all the funds provided to alleviate the situation are actually used by the italian government for that purpose. the call for the exclusion of reconstruction expenditure from the budgetary commitments under the stability and growth pact is, however, a red line for the delegation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. the n-va delegation therefore decided to vote against the resolution.
in writing. barroso, kroes, this week's endocrine disruptors case, the multiple scandals centred on the commission maintain a disastrous image of the european institutions and a failing ethics! the internal procedures of the european parliament, when the new commission is appointed and throughout its term of office, and the transparency obligations of the members of the commission must be addressed. the verification of the absence of conflict of interest cannot be put on the same level as the assessment of the candidate's competence. it must therefore be a prerequisite for the hearing. the control of declarations of financial interests and, more broadly, of potential conflicts of interest concerning the members of the commission must extend beyond the mere procedure for appointing the commission. i also expect the commission to make a series of amendments to its code of conduct and declarations of interests to ensure that they contain sufficient information to assess the financial interests of commissioners and that parliament is informed of any changes.
in writing. ‒ having been deeply shocked by the 'upgrading' of barroso to goldman sachs, it was with conviction that i voted in favour of the non-legislative resolution calling for the transition period before which former commissioners cannot hold a post in the private sector in their field of expertise to be extended from 18 to 36 months. i also consider it appropriate to strengthen the conditions for the declaration of financial interests of commissioners so that it includes any interest or activity in the last two years that could give rise to conflicts of interest or undermine their impartiality. finally, i believe that the committee on legal affairs should play a greater role and have sufficient time to analyse the declarations of financial interests, to check that they have been properly completed with the appropriate content and to assess whether a conflict of interest arises. it should also publish its final conclusions and make recommendations, where appropriate.
in writing. ‒ this proposal provides a number of guidelines for the review of commissioners' declarations of interests when they are nominated and when they are in office. the proposal also calls for a revision of the code of conduct for members of the commission. the n-va meps therefore welcome this proposal. in the light of the revelations about the behaviour of former commissioners both during and after their term of office, it is clear that there is only one way forward: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. it is thus incomprehensible that there is still no clear definition of what constitutes a conflict of interest and no criteria attached to the solemn promise of each commissioner to 'exercise particular honesty and discretion in accepting certain posts or benefits after the end of his term of office'. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the european parliament has also called for the introduction of a european standardisation body to be set up to ensure that the standards are complied with. a comprehensive integrity policy must be followed.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the guidelines for the declarations of financial interests of members of the commission. the aim is to send a strong political message by improving the code of conduct for commissioners adopted in 2011 (c(2011)2904) on selflessness, integrity, transparency, diligence, honesty, accountability and respect. in the continuing effort to increase the level of transparency and ethics within the union, which is necessary to strengthen the confidence of european citizens, it is important that the commission, as the guarantor of this value, be able to consistently improve the commissioners' declaration of financial interests forms. i am also very much in favour of the ep's legal affairs committee being able to draw up recommendations to put an end to a conflict of interest or to find an appointed commissioner unfit to perform his duties. it is important that the european parliament can properly assess the existence or absence of conflicts of interest concerning commissioners, as well as their ability to exercise their mandate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the declarations of interests of members of the european commission. in the face of the recent controversy over the decision by former european commission president josé manuel barroso to join the highly controversial us investment bank goldman sachs, we cannot remain inactive. i therefore welcome the broad support of the european parliament for the amendment calling for the amendment of the code of conduct to extend the duration of the limitations on the professional activities of commissioners after their term of office to a period of at least three years. this is a step in the right direction but must be accompanied by other commitments in this area.
in writing. ‒ the verification of the absence of conflict of interest cannot be put on the same level as the assessment of the candidate's competence. it must therefore be a prerequisite for the hearing. the control of declarations of financial interests and, more broadly, of potential conflicts of interest concerning the members of the commission must extend beyond the mere procedure for appointing the commission. i also expect the commission to make a series of amendments to its code of conduct and declarations of interests to ensure that they contain sufficient information to assess the financial interests of commissioners and that parliament is informed of any changes.
in writing. ‒ offshore oil and gas operations are likely to have major and devastating consequences for the environment and the economy of the sea and coastal areas. i therefore supported this report, which stresses in particular the issue of compensation for third parties. the report stresses that the treatment of civil liability varies considerably from one member state to another, and considers it necessary to have a european framework based on the most advanced member states' legislation covering not only personal injury and property damage but also economic damage and ensuring effective compensation mechanisms for victims and sectors likely to be seriously affected (fisheries and coastal tourism for example).
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on liability, compensation and financial guarantees in respect of offshore oil and gas operations. more than 90% of oil and 60% of gas produced in europe comes from offshore activities and 18 member states have operations underway or planned in their waters. accidents in offshore oil and gas operations can not only have serious consequences for the environment, the economy of the commercial fishing industry, tourism businesses, tourism businesses and coastal sectors, but also jeopardise the future of offshore oil and gas operations across the eu. it is essential to prevent these accidents but also to mitigate their consequences. to this end, the modernisation of criminal, civil and financial liability systems and of the systems of compensation and financial guarantee as proposed in this resolution seems to be quite adequate. this will allow us to move towards greater responsibility not only towards our environment but also towards our economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 1 december 2016 on liability, compensation and financial guarantees for offshore oil and gas operations. in this respect, i welcome the adoption of several directives, notably on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations and environmental responsibility. in addition, this resolution is important because it further clarifies environmental or civil liability in the event of an incident, as well as compensation and financial guarantees resulting from accidents related to offshore oil and gas operations.
in writing. ‒ following the 2010 deepwater horizon incident, which was a real environmental disaster, the european parliament rightly proposes to make offshore gas and oil operators responsible for preventing and repairing the environmental damage caused by their activities. in addition, they must ensure that they have sufficient financial resources to compensate for the damage. i am voting for the report because it indicates that it is high time that these recommendations were translated into legislation and actually implemented. this is a wake-up call! the recognition that an accident caused by such activities can have serious consequences for both people and the environment and the process by which citizens can more easily claim damages are some of the important green points included in the report. we also emphasise the 'polluter pays' principle. there is a need for a fund, sponsored and financed by the offshore industry, which can intervene if an operator is financially unable to bear and compensate for the harmful effects on people and the planet in the event of an accident resulting from offshore activities.
in writing. ‒ the n-va delegation abstained on the report on liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas activities. although the protection of the environment and public health are absolute top priorities for n-va, the report unfortunately takes the wrong approach. it contains numerous calls for harmonisation in the field of both civil and criminal liability. in doing so, it not only disregards the competences of the member states, but also ignores existing european and national legislation. the latter already ensures a very high level of protection. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include the following elements: however, there was no question of voting against the n-va. abstention is thus her signal that environmental concerns demand a central place in european and national policy-making.
in writing. ‒ the effectiveness of national liability regimes for traditional pollution damage from offshore oil and gas operations, the regimes for processing claims, the availability of financial guarantee instruments and the requirements for financial guarantees are closely linked. it is necessary to modernise the systems of compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas operations within the union, in particular to:- provide for compensation of third parties who have suffered traditional damage resulting from accidents in offshore oil and gas operations;- put in place an effective compensation system for the processing of corresponding payments;- ensure that operators or any other responsible party have the necessary financial resources to meet compensation claims.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the eu to work to put an end to the violation of human rights and international law in the drc. the number of victims of political tensions, violence and arbitrary arrests in the country continues to rise, while humanitarian agencies estimate that more than 5 million people are in need of food aid. in view of the current deterioration of the situation, the report calls for the eu to adopt sanctions under article 96 of the cotonou agreement following the country's failure to respect the principles of democracy and to hold elections to elect a successor to the current president. the resolution also calls on the union to cooperate with the african union in order to help citizens and stop the spread of violence. it also called on all political actors to engage in a peaceful and constructive dialogue to bring stability to the situation in the country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 1 december 2016 on the situation in the democratic republic of congo as it highlights the increasingly worrying situation in the country due to the extremely tense pre-electoral climate. i deplore the violent repression of protesters and the loss of life in recent weeks and remind the drc authorities of their responsibility to protect their citizens. i also ask, together with the european parliament, that the elections be held in a timely manner and in a smooth manner. i am in favour of a peaceful solution to this political impasse which prevents a peaceful and constitutionally-compliant transition of power. in this context, the european union is also urged to take more concrete measures and impose targeted sanctions (in particular visa bans and asset freezes) and to maintain its assistance to the people of the drc.
in writing. ‒ this text strongly condemns the delays in the organisation of the forthcoming presidential and parliamentary elections in the drc, which constitute a serious violation of the congolese constitution. parliament called on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. we urge the congolese government to provide an immediate response to the outstanding questions concerning the implementation of the electoral calendar and the related budget and the updating of the electoral register in order to allow free, fair and transparent elections to be held in the coming months.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which encourages the european union to take initiatives to enable people in developing countries to have access to energy, a factor that accelerates human and economic development. the union has a responsibility to make a major contribution to reducing energy poverty in these countries and to achieving goal 7 of the un sustainable development goals. more than 1.2 billion people worldwide do not have access to electricity, and half of them live in africa. the proposal therefore supports the provisions of the development cooperation instrument regulation as a sound basis for union development aid in the field of energy. it also calls for better coordination of international actions to improve access to energy for the implementation of the african clean energy corridor action plan to meet half of total electricity demand by 2030.
in writing. access to electricity is universal except in africa. the stability of africa is the stability of europe and the world. although africa has the greatest potential for renewable energy on the planet, it is the continent with the greatest backlog of electrification. access to energy is an accelerator of development. it opens up opportunities for businesses, develops employment, improves economic growth. it is therefore essential that the eu, through official development assistance, and the african continent focus their efforts on energy, prior to health, education, access to water, women's empowerment, the agri-food industry... access to energy for all is a guarantee of social peace, solidarity and sustainable development. as a sister continent to africa, the eu has a role to play in the eu-africa energy partnership. our inaction would cost a hundred times more than action in terms of radicalisation, chaos, immigration, political and social destabilisation. but impulses that do not come from the african continent have little chance of success. the future of africa is therefore closely linked to that of europe and vice versa, but nothing can replace the will of africans.
in writing. ‒ access to energy is an accelerator of development. draw attention to the scale and severity of energy poverty in developing countries and the major contribution of the european union to efforts to address it, and underline the need for governments, civil society and other stakeholders in the countries concerned, as well as their international partners, to undertake sustained and concerted efforts to reduce energy poverty and achieve sdg 7, which requires particular efforts in remote rural areas, including energy-deprived regions. recall that climate change strategies and trade policies need to be mutually reinforcing in order to achieve sustainable development and poverty eradication in line with the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement.
in writing. i voted in favour of a more adequate application of the european order for payment procedure, which is intended to facilitate the recovery of sums due in cross-border cases. in short, this procedure makes it easier for creditors to obtain an injunction to recover uncontested claims in civil and commercial matters. the european order for payment procedure is automatically issued on the basis of the application alone, but the debtor may lodge an objection within 30 days. if there is an objection, the injunction is terminated and the opposite court proceedings may be commenced.
in writing. the european order for payment procedure for crossborder claims uncontested by the defendant simplifies, speeds up and reduces the costs of settling disputes involving more than one eu country. the regulation establishes a uniform procedure leading to a judicial decision which is enforceable in all the member states without prior recognition. however, the regulation needed to be revised to improve its efficiency, to update some data, to adopt new versions of some forms, to improve its clarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 1 december 2016 on the application of the european order for payment procedure. parliament welcomed the good functioning of the european order for payment procedure in all member states, a procedure for uncontested claims applicable in civil and commercial matters and aimed mainly at simplifying and speeding up the cross-border procedure for the recognition and enforcement of the rights of creditors in the european union. however, i regret a number of things, in particular the significant delay of almost two years in sending the commission's report reviewing the application of regulation (ec) no 1896/2006, the fact that the commission's report does not include an extended impact assessment for each member state and that the use of the european order for payment procedure varies widely between member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european order for payment procedure, which is designed to facilitate the recovery of sums due in crossborder cases. the procedure is optional, which means that it can replace many equivalent national procedures in crossborder cases. in short, this procedure makes it easier for creditors to obtain an injunction to recover uncontested claims in civil and commercial matters. this procedure can be applied by post or by electronic means (which is more often the case), does not require the assistance of a lawyer and can be used in the other member states without any additional formalities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we support the proposal of our colleague mr scholz. the fact is that this parliament has a rather common habit of insisting on the transparency of the other institutions of the european union. it is not every day that we have to fundamentally revise the rules of procedure of this parliament. i think it is only right that we should have at least one debate in plenary on the way this parliament, which is the parliament of the european citizens, works. i think it is absolutely appropriate that we have this debate in public.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know that we live here, like others elsewhere, in multicultural but also multi-confessional societies. we know that there are people in our societies and elsewhere who are trying to turn communities, especially religious communities, against each other, and we saw, not too long ago, in the 1990s, what this notion of ethnic cleansing could produce as horror. so i think it is appropriate that we have this debate.
i would like to say on behalf of the group of the european right that our group supports the fourth railway package. it's been a long day's work. we are glad that the package is finally complete, given the benefits it brings to the traveller. i would like to draw particular attention to the opportunities this offers for improving the punctuality of services in my own country. the proposals introduce measurable, transparent and verifiable performance requirements for future service awards to nmbs, the current operator of the train service. so meeting punctuality standards will become more important. hopefully this will encourage nmbs to further transform itself into a resourceful and customer-friendly company. a survey of member states has shown me that the way punctuality is measured varies quite a lot across the eu. it is in the interest of the traveller that performance requirements should also be made more easily comparable within the eu.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. there can be no discussion about this. we must protect and promote our european values. i fully support this message of the report. on the other hand, the report also dares to go beyond the lines of eu fundamental rights and to see the scope as far too broad. if the fundamental nature of fundamental rights is to be preserved, not everything can be regarded as a fundamental right. we really can't lose sight of this. another criticism is that the report does not sufficiently respect the division of competences between the eu and its member states. a europe which wants to be close to its citizens must take this division of powers seriously. i would like to end on a positive note, however. i am particularly pleased that the report recalls the importance of the istanbul convention for preventing and combating violence against women. it is now up to the member states to do their job. violence against women is unacceptable and constitutes an extreme form of discrimination that is both a cause and consequence of gender inequality. i would add that violence against men and children must also be combated by all means.
on behalf of the s&d group, thank you, commissioner, not only for being here, but also for having approved your winter package on time and sent it to parliament. there is a gigantic package of dossiers, legislative and non-legislative, and i can assure you that our group is ready to get started and work with other groups to ensure that this package gets through parliament quickly and properly. it's a good base from which to start. but - and there is always a but - our group thinks that the level of ambition should be a little higher. we are one day after the first anniversary of the paris agreement and for us this agreement, cop 21, is the agreement that all other initiatives should be covered by. in this respect, it is important to strengthen the level of ambition a little more. we are very pleased with the binding energy efficiency targets. we think that is fantastic, but you know, this parliament has already voted for a binding target of 40%. that is feasible, that is good for climate policy, but also for employment and also for energy poverty in europe. i'll get back to that later. two, renewable energy. good, but not good enough. you have actually abandoned the ambition to impose binding targets at member state level, which have worked so wonderfully well in the past. the commission has therefore proposed to improve the targets for renewable energy. i'm also going to connect the priority dispatch to that. it is not worthwhile to invest in renewable energy and then give priority back to fossil fuels, which are easier or more expensive to disconnect. finally, our group is very much in favour of the initiatives proposed on energy poverty. we want to support and strengthen it. it is, alongside climate policy, a hugely important challenge. in any case, commissioners, we are ready and we hope for very good and constructive cooperation to get this package through parliament and push it forward with ambition.
i am pleased to be able to congratulate you today on the proposals you have made. the commission's proposals show that it sees where the energy and climate challenges are today. we must set ambitious targets, but they must be realistic. unrealistically high goals miss their purpose. i would like to explain three things. firstly, the emphasis on efficiency is rightly at the heart of the commission's proposals. however, whereas the committee on energy efficiency is aiming for 30%, i propose that we stick to the 27% as also agreed in the council. we can then possibly re-evaluate in 2023. then the second element, renewable energy. the commission is right to propose a binding european target of 27%. the commission thus demonstrates that it is not sensible to set nationally binding renewable energy targets within a single energy market. and finally, as regards the plans for a new energy market model, i will see to it that the remaining market barriers are removed as far as possible. i think the commission is lacking just a little bit in this area.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, let me thank all of you for your thoughts and comments on the clean energy for all european package. the commission has been very attentive to the proposals made by this house when preparing the legislative measures included in the package. many of the views suggested over the months by this house have been incorporated in the package and are reflected in the pages of the legislative proposal. i am aware that on some issues this house has advocated slightly different positions from the ones put forward by the commission in its proposal, so allow me to emphasise this: the commission proposals are in themselves no easy targets. they will require considerable efforts by member states to meet their international and domestic obligations, and to get them right we have assessed our proposals along several dimensions, including energy system impacts, macroeconomic impacts, environmental effects, social impacts, including affordability issues, energy-related investments, and, finally, energy system costs. and of course our proposal fully respects the right of member states to choose their energy means as stated in article 194 of the treaties. many of you have referred to renewable energy. the proposal revising the renewable energy directive is ambitious and improves upon the previous directive, in particular by putting an end to retroactive measures and launching a europeanisation process. but the measures favouring renewables go beyond this text: the market design, energy efficiency, the energy performance of buildings and the governance of the union all contribute to reaching our policy goals and targets in a cost-effective way, paving the way for further deployment of renewables in buildings, transport and industry. the revised proposal also goes beyond reaching the 27% target. it is about bringing sustainable jobs to the market, creating local added value, locking in investment potential, and fostering innovation. the target – at least 27% –represents the cost-optimal contribution of renewables in 2030 towards meeting the european union’s long-term decarbonisation objectives, and it reflects the european union’s fair and ambitious contribution to the paris agreement. for the first time; the package is proposing a clear framework on cell consumption and production, energy communities and demand response, and this will help drive the energy transition by unlocking private capital for investment in renewables and make the electricity system more flexible in order to help renewable integration. the european union’s binding 30% energy efficiency target for 2030 is ambitious but balanced and consistent with other targets of the 2030 framework for energy and climate. it is also the target which vice-president šefčovič and myself promised the european parliament at our hearings two years ago: this is what we have delivered. we are going beyond what strictly speaking would be necessary to ensure that the target of at least 40% for production is met, and any claim that our targets and proposal are insufficient to honour our commitment under the paris agreement is simply wrong. with this package we will take the decisive step forward to ensure that the energy transition will continue and that the targets agreed upon will be met. for sure, a lot of real political engagement will be needed in both parliament and the council to reach a compromise, and i am counting on you to improve them and make them a reality soon for the benefit of all our citizens.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank members for what i feel was general support for the package. i would like to assure you that we listened carefully to the critical remarks and the calls to be more ambitious and are ready to work very closely with you on this package. just to complement miguel’s remark about energy poverty, i think it is very important that we clearly recognise energy poverty as an important challenge in our package. we recognise it as a very important challenge which we have to tackle together with the member states but we want to do our utmost at european level. we are addressing the energy poverty issue in our governance system. we want to make sure that renovations, issues of social housing, and long—term innovation plans clearly factor in the issue of energy poverty. miguel elaborated on the importance of energy efficiency and we see it as a very strong instrument in tackling energy poverty as well. in electricity market design we are proposing a clear procedure which would prevent people from being unfairly disconnected, not to mention eco-design and energy labelling where already today our citizens are saving hundreds of euros thanks to our efficient electric appliances. i would also like to respond to one remark and express the support of the commission for all those who are pushing for the completion of the internal energy market in a prompt and smart way. i think a lot of positive things are happening in the baltic and nordic countries. we are seeing positive developments in south—east europe through our cesec initiative, and i would like to assure you that we are bringing new dynamism to managing our projects of common interest. we are also encouraging the member states to present more projects in the area of smart grids. to conclude, i would like to thank all members who recognised the high level of ambition in this proposal. its truly transformational nature should deliver the most significant modernisation of our energy systems since they were built in europe. so i welcome your readiness to work hard on this package. it is on the priority action list for next year so i believe that we can move from the year of delivery to the year of implementation.
in writing. this broad and comprehensive package of measures is a crucial step towards achieving the objectives we agreed in paris. the commission is working on many fronts simultaneously to enable the transition to a clean and energy-efficient economy. that's the right approach. we must use the power of the union and better link our energy markets so that we can exchange renewable energy more easily. increasing the energy efficiency target from 27% to 30% of final energy consumption is crucial. we can do this through the new funding opportunities for better insulated buildings, better energy labels and more efficient appliances through the ecodesign regulation. we all have to work together. member states should rapidly introduce renewable energy for heating obligations and provide incentives for the establishment of energy cooperatives. consumers should also receive clearer information on the share of renewable energy in their total energy consumption through their electricity bill. at the same time, they need to be better protected against disconnection from the grid. the crucial simplification that member states submit one national climate and energy plan and one progress report annually, instead of the hundreds of reports now, should be the deciding factor.
for the enf group we have been working together as a group for more than a year in a positive and hopeful way to clean up and update our rules of procedure. in general, as a lawyer, i still believe that such a document should be shorter and less complex. we also continue to object more specifically to a number of provisions and amendments which we believe discriminate against small groups or independent members and make them dependent on or keep them dependent on the arbitrariness of the large so-called majority groups in this parliament. we also have difficulty with the further restriction of parliamentary control, the number of motions for resolutions and so on. finally, we strongly support the introduction of a new punitive regime. without wishing to defend racist or xenophobic language or behaviour, our group is concerned about the abuse of these provisions by majorities who in this parliament usually use these terms in a hysterical way, simply to discriminate against people with a different, non-politically correct opinion.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which recommends the approval of the protocol setting out the technical and financial rules for algeria's participation in certain eu programmes under the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the union and algeria.
in writing. algeria is not only one of the largest neighbours of the european union but also one of the most important. the recommendation submitted to us on the eu-algeria framework agreement is a further step towards strengthening our comprehensive and multidimensional relations. our objective is to establish a horizontal framework of economic, financial and technical cooperation which will enable algeria to participate in certain european union programmes and the eu to provide financial assistance which will ultimately support the algerian government's efforts at economic and social reform and adjustment. in this sense, this agreement, based on genuine dialogue, will help the development and modernisation of algeria, a country with which the eu wishes to build a neighbourhood of prosperity and stability, helping to bring the policies of the two sides of the mediterranean closer together.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, the european parliament approved the eu-algeria framework agreement, which authorises and sets the conditions for algeria's participation in eu programmes. this agreement, signed jointly in brussels on 4 june 2015, takes the form of a protocol annexed to the ec-algeria euro-mediterranean association agreement (in force since 2005). the european parliament's green light will allow algeria to take part in 20 eu programmes such as cosme (smes), horizon 2020 (research) or creative europe (culture and media).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the people's democratic republic of algeria, of the other part, as regards a framework agreement between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the people's democratic republic of algeria in union programmes. mr. panzeri's proposal is of a high quality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which, at second reading, recommends adopting the council's position at first reading without amendment. the eu will freeze the fishing footprint by defining the area in which deep-sea fishing activities will be allowed. this zone covers the area where fishing took place between 2009 and 2011 in european waters of the north-east atlantic. parliament also secured the introduction of specific sanctions for vessels infringing the regulation on deep-sea fishing.
in writing. i welcome the position taken by the european parliament on the regulation on fishing in the north-east atlantic. as regards fishing in european waters, this regulation includes a ban on bottom trawling below 800 metres and aims to protect the ecosystems of the sea bed. i am pleased that the european fisheries policy is taking a further step towards responsible management of resources and increased protection of the marine environment, and in particular the most vulnerable ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ a highly symbolic vote this afternoon with the adoption by the european parliament of a new regulation banning fishing beyond a depth of 800 metres in the north-east atlantic. it is the main fishing area for the eu member states, accounting for around 70% of the global fish catch. this prohibition of deep-sea fishing will apply to bottom trawling, which often destroys seabed habitats, and will limit deep-sea fishing to the area where it occurred between 2009 and 2011. other important measures include the obligation for member states to provide information on the location of vulnerable ecosystems and stricter controls at sea: 20% of european vessels will have to have a (scientific) observer on board to ensure timely and accurate data collection. the text therefore addresses some of the problems raised by the ngos. but in the long term, the eu will have to commit to doing more if it really wants to protect its fisheries resources, for example through a planned phase-out of bottom trawls and bottom set-nets in deep-sea fisheries. this is precisely what the european commission proposed back in 2012.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation to ban fishing beyond a depth of 800 metres in the north-east atlantic. this prohibition will apply to bottom trawling, which often destroys seabed habitats, and will limit deep-sea fishing to the area where it occurred between 2009 and 2011. in addition, stricter controls at sea and rules on transparency of data collection will also be applied. there will now be more transparency guarantees, including for example obligations to provide public information on european vessels targeting deep-sea species and to report on all catches (fish and vulnerable ecosystems).
in writing. ‒ i am totally in favour of this text. parliament introduced new, more stringent transparency rules, including obligations to provide public information on european vessels targeting deep-sea species and to record all catches (fish and vulnerable ecosystems). member states will also be required to provide information on the location of vulnerable ecosystems (impact studies) and the european commission will assess this data annually and adapt the fishing zone accordingly (using implementing acts).
in writing. ‒ i voted against because parliament has introduced new, more far-reaching transparency rules and the obligation to disclose information on european vessels engaged in deep-sea fishing activities and to record all catches.
mr president, we had two objectives here: to improve the efficiency of our work and to strengthen our rules on transparency. i'd like to move on to the written questions. these are the questions we are asking the commission, which must give us an answer within four weeks. a healthy and democratic exercise in principle, which is now worn out, misused, misrepresented by some, to the extent that the commission does not even take the time to reply on the substance. we had to narrow it down, limit it, allow one or two questions a month, only, actually, impose a virtuous circle of real questions, to get real answers, and instead, what do we do? we are breaking the ceiling, seven questions instead of five, it is incomprehensible, and i have not even mentioned the cost of this inflation: at 490 euros per question, it is 30 million per year for an exercise which is to the parliamentary expression what coca-cola is to brunello. it's indefensible, and i'm not voting for that compromise. but let me say a word about our code of conduct, which we are enforcing. he will now be banned from being a paid mp and consultant; no room here for influence peddling, it's essential.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this revision of parliament's rules of procedure, which will in particular enhance its transparency. thus, during their term of office, members will be prohibited from accepting paid lobbying work. once their mandate is over, they will lose the privileges of former meps - including free access to the european parliament - if they become lobbyists. the european parliament also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the release of all political prisoners.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the general revision of the european parliament's rules of procedure which sets out in general terms the measures needed to strengthen parliament's powers. this is also part of an effort to make it work better, including improving a number of rules on transparency and accountability. in this way, for example, it will now be forbidden to be both an mep and a paid consultant. in addition, the code of conduct for members will also be strengthened, severely punishing those who engage in actions aimed at disrupting parliamentary activity, in order to strengthen the sense of responsibility of the members of our institution. in these times of nationalist upheavals and the rise of racism and xenophobia, it was necessary to punish members who took extreme positions, in total contradiction to european values.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of many of the procedural changes proposed in this general revision of parliament's rules of procedure, such as the measure prohibiting a member from being paid to lobby against the european institutions; i think that's a pretty obvious ethical thing to do. in the same spirit of respect for the office entrusted to us, i think it would be good to strengthen the sanctions against members who use defamatory, racist or xenophobic language, which has no place anywhere, let alone in a parliament. another step forward which i would like to highlight is the setting up of committees of inquiry, which will no longer necessarily require the prior approval of the conference of presidents of the political groups. this gives more power to members and opens the door to more rigorous scrutiny by the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ the aim of the text, and in particular of its revision, is to achieve a more effective code of conduct and to play a much more significant role in transparency. now it is done!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because these amendments to the rules of procedure take due account of the interinstitutional agreement of 13 april 2016 on better law-making.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that the points touched are in line with my liberal view. i support the importance given to transparency and all the rules that have to be followed in case an individual has been signed in the transparency register. transparency of the european parliament’s activities is fundamental for the credibility of the institution. i believe that members should enjoy the privileges and immunities only laid down in the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union. in order to make the process more efficient, i support the idea of limiting the questions submitted by each member state to a maximum of twenty questions over a period of three months. finally, i think that there should not be split votes on compromise amendments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, in particular because it is the result of the negotiating work that the s&d group has done in parliament to defend amendments that focus on very important areas. this includes respect for the rule of law, which is a fundamental principle for any democracy, and the migration issue, and the call on member states to put in place policies to facilitate the integration of migrants into our society. the issue of the lgbti community should also be highlighted, as it reminds us that all citizens are equal and cannot be discriminated against. other important priorities are also raised by the amended report, including the need to step up efforts to end human trafficking networks and to combat racism and violence against women.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on fundamental rights in the eu in 2015. this text, which addresses the main challenges related to fundamental rights in the eu in 2015, notably in the areas of migration, child protection and the online environment, is parliament's response to the commission's annual report on fundamental rights in the eu. most recently, parliament called for a european mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights to monitor the situation of these principles in the member states on an annual basis, on the basis of evidence, in an objective and non-discriminatory manner. member states should also step up their efforts to promote 'european values, tolerance and a sense of community, avoiding stigma' in order to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism, while conducting positive information campaigns to help citizens see integration in a better light, the text says. the resolution deplores "the increasing level of hate speech in certain institutions, political parties and media. "they call on the eu to set an example by opposing hate speech within its institutions".
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015. despite the fact that our values are enshrined in the charter and in article 2 of the treaty, the european continent is not immune from flagrant violations of human rights. every year the european parliament makes this observation and this year's report is no exception. the rise of extremes is a serious threat to our democracies and the drift observed in some member states is pushing the union to act to ensure that the treaties are respected by all and at all times. i would remind you in this connection of the need for continuous and objective monitoring of the respect by all the member states of the values on which the construction of europe is based. as regards the text for the vote, i chose to follow my group in rejecting most of the amendments proposed in plenary so as not to risk losing the comfortable majority obtained in committee and to be able to send a strong signal from the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ every year, the ep gives its opinion on the respect of fundamental rights in the eu. this year it was summed up in the nagy report, which i voted for. the report states that there is still much room for improvement in european fundamental rights policy. the rapporteur tried to keep his report as limited as possible at the outset, to avoid 'difficult' discussions on migration, security, women's rights and lgbt rights and a european approach to those countries that violate rights in this area. he wanted to limit himself to less controversial issues such as children's rights or the fight against discrimination on the basis of age and disability. the epp also recently voted against more progressive reports on fundamental rights. the greens tabled 68 amendments with stronger wording on a number of issues, such as migration and asylum, social rights, the homeless, discrimination, the fight against terrorism, prison systems, the roma and other minorities. about three quarters of these amendments were adopted. so although we improved the original report together with other political groups, the text adopted is a little less progressive than in previous years because the epp and the conservative ecr did not want to support recommendations on women's rights, socioeconomic rights and lgbt rights.
in writing. ‒ human dignity is the inviolable foundation of all fundamental rights and must not be exploited in any way. it must be respected and protected in all union initiatives. the citizens of the union must be made aware of the inherent dignity of all human beings in order to achieve a more humane and just society. we condemn all forms of discrimination and violence committed within the union against any human being, as they constitute a direct violation of human dignity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the european union is a community founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that law enforcement agencies should increase efforts in combatting human trafficking. there have already been improvements but it is still being a major problem. moreover, i am very concerned with the growing presence of hate speech and material on the internet, so i support the idea that member states should put in place a simple procedure enabling members of the public to report the presence of hate content online. thus, i also support the commission’s announcement of the code of conduct on countering illegal hate speech online. as a liberal, i believe in the importance of safeguarding sexual and reproductive rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on the commission to develop a coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for the cultural and creative sectors. in particular, given the size of the employment these sectors represent within the union, framework conditions should be provided to stimulate innovation and ensure the financing of different areas of activity. this includes, for example, completing the digital single market to take full advantage of what icts have to offer, but also establishing a system to promote r&d, european production of creative content and technological innovation in the media. this would help to create competitive and creative services in the union. with this in mind, the report also encourages member states to include these sectors in the youth employment initiative to facilitate career development and training. finally, it encourages the commission to provide financial support for the achievement of these objectives through the various european programmes (such as horizon 2020, erasmus+ and creative europe) and the european structural and investment funds set up for this purpose.
12 million people in europe work in the cultural and creative sectors. this is two and a half times the number of cars in the european automobile industry. at the same time, this employment pool creates eur 509 billion annually. in developing inclusive, sustainable and smart growth in europe, we are therefore well placed to fully exploit the potential of this fully-fledged sector. the commission's request in this report to develop an industrial policy which fully exploits the enormous potential of the cultural and creative sectors is therefore more than justified. in addition to market-oriented training, an attractive investment climate will have to be created and research and development and public-private cooperation will have to be financially stimulated. europe's cultural wealth - from medieval architecture to contemporary cinema - is invaluable. it is therefore also advisable to develop instruments which bring culture and education closer together. this will help to develop young people's creative talents and promote active citizenship.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, the european parliament stood up as a strong defender of the european cultural and creative industries, and that is all the better. in the context of a changing regulatory environment, we adopted a resolution that reviews the main themes of the digital single market strategy. because the production of quality content, the ability to innovate, to tell stories, to arouse emotions are invaluable raw materials in europe, it is important to cultivate, support, promote and... above all, defend them. the text of the resolution therefore calls on the european union to include the development, promotion, effective protection and adequate funding of the cultural and creative sectors in its strategic objectives and overall priorities. the text adopted also refers to 'fair remuneration and legal protection' for all parties involved in the creative process and their works. but this is only an own-initiative report. the next major step in the digital single market strategy will be on 15 december, with the publication of the report on e-commerce.
in writing. ‒ cultural and creative industries are undergoing major changes due to the development of digital technology, the economic crisis and changes in the legislative framework. the report also calls for the european parliament to be given the opportunity to present its views on the situation in the eu. the ehler/morgano report was adopted by a large majority. i voted for it, too. the challenges facing the sectors from music and audiovisual productions to video games, architecture, fashion, contemporary art, radio, books on magazines and festivals are compounded by clear information and legislative blockages in the area of, inter alia, intellectual property rights and different tax regimes. in line with the europe 2020 strategy for job creation, the aim is to ensure that creative sectors can contribute to employment throughout europe. the reform of copyright legislation was one of the other driving forces behind this report, as was access to financial funds. the report calls on the european commission to adopt an industrial policy approach to the creative sector and to encourage it more through promotion, subsidies, but also through education and networks and platforms for cultural infrastructure. the report also calls for better protection of property rights and the fight against piracy.
in writing. ‒ the creative and cultural sector in flanders is very important. the commission notes that the flanders dc knowledge centre has carried out a study in early 2016 on the sector, which accounts for 2,7% of gdp and employs more than 50 000 self-employed persons (almost 13% of all self-employed persons in flanders) and 70 000 employees. the nva supported this resolution, which makes recommendations on the development of a european policy on creative and cultural industries. we would prefer to see certain elements, such as the creation of a new european award, removed from the resolution. but the balance is clearly positive.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative sectors play an important role in the reindustrialisation of europe, act as engines for growth and are strategically positioned to trigger innovative redistributions in other sectors, such as tourism, retail and digital technologies. the european union could play a leading role in highlighting the important positive effects of the creative sectors across europe, while also promoting policies to support europe's most valuable asset: its culture!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because european art and culture relates to 3 000 years of common cultural heritage, conveys knowledge and values and helps to protect tangible and intangible evidence of the artificial and natural world for present and future generations.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that there is a need to work together on the creative industry and it is very important to constantly share knowledge and best practice between member states. i believe that the commission should strengthen measures on fighting online piracy. i believe that digital platforms are a good and efficient means to provide wider access to cultural and creative works and offer also great opportunities for the ccs to develop new business models. i support the partnership with education, because i believe that it can contribute to stimulating a stronger learning environment and better integrate the disadvantaged and marginalised communities. i agree with the adoption of policies aimed at increasing the level of cultural participation among eu citizens, because at the moment in many member states it is still very low.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on the eastern partnership countries (armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine) to take further action to improve the situation of women's rights in these countries. the situation of women is alarming, because in many cases their rights are not respected, whether in the health sector or in the legal and economic sphere. the efforts to be made by these countries must have three objectives. the first step is to improve women's participation in decision-making processes by ensuring equal access to power and eliminating discriminatory practices in politics. secondly, their participation in the economic sector should be encouraged by ending the stereotypes and discrimination that prevent them from thriving in this sector. finally, it is obvious that all forms of violence against them must be condemned and brought to an end, in particular by putting in place effective protection mechanisms.
in writing. although equality between men and women is enshrined in law in the eastern partnership countries, evidence of persistent male-female stereotypes is still being produced on a daily basis. in fact, equality between men and women has actually declined in recent years. low-paid jobs, gender-based violence and a lack of access to sexual and reproductive rights for women continue to mar society. over the past years, the eu has provided eur 103 million in support to promote gender equality in the eastern partnership. this report takes stock of the situation. the countries are asked to set clear targets for gender equality and to make efforts to remove the obstacles to women's full economic and social participation. it has been demonstrated worldwide that women in countries in transition are often driving forces in ensuring peace, security and prosperity and thus raising society to a higher level. it is therefore also appropriate to guarantee equal access to quality education and equal representation at all levels of government for women in the neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on women's rights in the eastern partnership states. the resolution, which highlights the many issues that still require special attention in order to improve the situation in the field of women's rights, focuses on several main areas: women's participation in decision-making processes, women's economic participation, violence against women, the roles played by women in the peaceful resolution of conflicts, examples of good practice and, finally, union assistance in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. in a context of profound economic change and ongoing conflict in the region, notably in ukraine, it is important that the european union reiterates its support for the principles of international law and fundamental values, with a particular focus on the promotion of women's rights in these eastern partnership countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text. as underlined in the riga declaration, gender equality is an area that could greatly benefit from enhanced cooperation between the union and the eastern partnership states. most of the challenges are inherently common to the union and its eastern european neighbours and this report aims to contribute to giving women's rights and gender equality a higher priority in eastern partnership policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because women must have equal access to power and women must be represented at all levels of governance and decision-making in order to promote women's leadership.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because i am a liberal woman and so this topic concerns me a lot. i agree with the fact that the situation of women’s rights in the eastern partnership states, still needs improvements. the situation of women has been negatively affected by the strong economic and changes and uncertainties, leading to a worsening of the battle for equality in particular in that area. two fundamental preconditions to enhance women’s rights in the eastern partnership countries are an overall political stability and the respect for human rights. the eastern partnership countries should take immediate action to increase equality between women and men in society. this could be done by national action plans and cooperation with international organisations or other types of stakeholders. i would also like to stress the fact that women have often to bear the responsibility of elderly and dependent people, and that women with children usually find professional reintegration very difficult. a more equal sharing of care and domestic responsibilities between men and women may be a good precondition for women’s participation in the labour market.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr prime minister, i think you are right. our citizens are expressing concern, distrust, if not outright anger, towards the european union, and the referendum held in the united kingdom during your presidency is the clearest demonstration of this. this is not surprising, of course, when a quarter of europeans are at risk of poverty and social exclusion and many others feel that they may be next in line. many attribute all this to the european union. in the face of this, you say, we need new momentum, and you are right. but where was that new momentum during your presidency? i am still looking for the challenge of an inept macroeconomic policy, which makes the competition of workers with each other, a completely maniacal pursuit of free trade agreements and a completely unreasonable fiscal austerity the keywords of its policy. i am still looking for the beginnings, the impetus for a fiscal and social europe, without which monetary union is doomed to failure. you were talking about a european union that is a leader in climate change, but that is no longer the case. while in 2004 the european union, which accounted for 30% of global gdp, invested more than half in renewable energy, today we still account for a fifth of global gdp, but only 17% of global renewable investment. we've become poor followers. i do not find any trace of this, of a fairer, more sustainable and more democratic europe, in the bratislava process, which seems to be clinging to a europe of defence as the solution to all ills. as regards migration, i must admit that during the dutch presidency, and then under the slovak presidency, the key words in migration policy have become 'send back' and 'keep back'. of course, mr. prime minister, it's not you. you are not the one who said that you are not obliged to take in all the threatened people. it is not you, it is mr theo francken, the belgian minister for migration, a minister who marine le pen would certainly not deny. but i will still quote one of your words, which is that the idea that a multicultural europe is a failure and that the natural integration of people with a different way of life, a different way of thinking, a different culture and, above all, a different religion is not possible. mr fico, i say to you that if this multicultural europe is impossible, then the european union is impossible, because the european union, you see, is a union which has decided to adopt the motto 'unity in diversity'. the idea of the european union is precisely to make people with different ways of thinking, ways of living, languages and, indeed, religions live on a very small continent. if you say that this society is impossible, it means that you yourself say that the european union is impossible and with that we will never agree.
i'm the reporter. madam president, the european parliament is invited to give its consent to the protocol amending the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and uzbekistan, of the other part, in order to extend the provisions of that agreement to bilateral trade in textiles. the ratification of the textile protocol will lead to the inclusion of textiles in the partnership and cooperation agreement concluded between the country and the european union in 1999. the provisions laid down under the 'exchange of goods' title of the partnership and cooperation agreement are therefore also applicable to textiles. this title provides for the granting of most-favoured-nation status on a reciprocal basis, trade free of quantitative restrictions, the principle of free transit, trade at prices linked to market prices, a safeguard clause and prohibitions or restrictions on imports, exports or goods in transit, which are justified by public morality, public interest or public health. we are here today as a result of an interim report adopted by the european parliament in 2011, which gave its consent to improving the human rights situation in uzbekistan, including on the issues of child labour and forced labour in the annual cotton harvest. following the adoption of this report, a dialogue was established with uzbekistan, through which annual hearings were held, involving several stakeholders, including civil society, the uzbek authorities and european and international institutions. close cooperation was also established between uzbekistan and the international labour organisation to assess the actions taken to eradicate child and forced labour in the annual cotton harvest. the ilo carried out a monitoring mission on the cotton harvest for the first time in 2013 and repeated in 2014, 2015 and 2016. the final report of the 2015 ilo monitoring mission, which took place between 14 september and 31 october 2015, demonstrated that child labour has been virtually eliminated in the cotton harvest. public authorities have implemented various measures to eliminate child labour, including the organisation of after-school daycare, fines for offenders, and accountability for parents, teachers and farmers. only a few isolated cases have been reported. the who thus stated that child labor was indeed sporadic and had become socially unacceptable. this position was reaffirmed by the latest ilo report. his report will be official early next year, but we already have the conclusions of this report, which actually confirms what happened in 2015. unfortunately, the same cannot be said about the question of forced labour. the ilo has identified several indicators of forced labour, linked to abusive working conditions and the recruitment process. the uzbek authorities have made several commitments to phase out forced adult labour, including the establishment of a permanent feedback mechanism to address complaints from the population, the organisation of awareness campaigns and the implementation of programmes to evaluate and implement international conventions on forced labour. parliament therefore fully supports the work of the ilo to abolish forced labour in uzbekistan once and for all. the efforts of the uzbek authorities must be encouraged. that is why we propose to give consent with, of course, a resolution which simply tells the uzbek government that if the work that has been done so far cannot be continued, we would take a much tougher stance here in the european parliament on the whole agreement that has been reached between the union and the uzbek authorities.
i'm the reporter. mr president, thank you, commissioner, thank you to the fictitious rapporteurs who worked on this dossier. this is proof that there are ways of doing business and of doing business which make the relationship and the relations between our states much more just. i welcome the work of everyone, of course the commission, the ilo, parliament and all those who have helped to make progress in uzbekistan. all trade agreements should be of this order to work effectively for the welfare of all. it's true, mr buchner, who's gone, mrs lunacek, who's gone, everything is not perfect. nobody said that everything was perfect, which is why we have chosen to attach to this consent a resolution which clearly says, in effect, to the uzbek authorities that this is the beginning of something today, that we must continue to work on the transformation of the productive apparatus, on the diversification of the economic fabric, on the improvement of working conditions. all this must be continued, and we have said that if it is not, if the uzbek authorities stop the process, we will activate articles 2 and 95 to suspend the agreement. mrs lunacek, i am surprised to see the request for postponement of the decision, because the timing had been decided, it had been decided with all the political groups that this year we would take this decision. trust is not built in one direction, trust is built in giving. it was important, in the context of our relations with uzbekistan, that we could also give something back after the efforts that have been made. we have made a commitment to do so this year and we will make that commitment, i hope, tomorrow.
madam president, i will try to be original in this debate, first of all to say that in the gray area where agricultural aid does not take account at all of the economic reality of farmers, compared with the fact that the commission obviously remains in a budgetary trap in which it must move, that the council is acting as if it were a stand-in, as antonio maspes, whose memory i recall, who was a seven-time world champion cyclist on the track and who was the specialist on the stand-in; he also once stayed 32 minutes in a world championship before winning the final by acting as if he were a stand-in, parliament, and mrs daye, is undoubtedly a light in the gray area, thanks in particular to nicolas caputo, who has obtained compromises that ensure that countercyclical aid is finally on the carpet. it is true that countercyclical aid makes it possible to take account of the economic reality of farmers, to help them in the best and fairest way. but of course this poses a problem - and i am speaking under the supervision of mr arthuis, who will speak after me - it poses a budgetary problem, because of course there is no longer any question of talking about annuities in the agricultural budget, since countercyclical aid can be different from one year to the next. but these countercyclical aids are interesting, madam president, and i would like the commissioner to tell us what he thinks about the idea of having countercyclical aids in the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i’m not going to start to say farewell to you, i think that is for the next session. but i want to say welcome to somebody who is new here, ska keller as the new leader of the green group. we know already each other, she was ‘spitzenkandidat’, i know she’s a very good debater, so i say welcome to her in this mandate. we have already heard it a few times this morning: everybody is talking about aleppo, some i think with good intentions, some with less good intentions. the enf are asking to put that point on the agenda but that’s in order to say they have liberated aleppo. that’s the reason they want it on the agenda, not to deplore the thousands of people, men, women and children who were killed by those who you are supporting for the moment: russian airplanes, the troops of assad. and so it’s completely cynical from your side to even try to put it on the agenda of the european parliament, when you are the cause of what is happening for the moment in aleppo. it’s a shame! (applause)what would be far better is to listen a little bit better to the testimony of yesterday, the testimony of nadia and lamiya, the yazidi women, the horrific things that they went through. because the horrific things that they went through is exactly what is now happening in the streets there, where the assad people, the army, and also the shi’ites, iranian commandos, are going from door to door to kill people, to kill women, to kill children. and so my request to you and to the council is: what are you going to do about it? yes, you going to deplore it like we all deplore it here, but you have the power to do something more. what you could do is say, well, we need to do three things: first, ceasefire; second, we need to have free entrance of humanitarian aid to eastern aleppo; and third, we need to sit around the table to find a political solution and if those who don’t want to do it, don’t do it, we the european union launch a number of sanctions towards russia, towards the assad regime, towards iran, because it is their commandos for the moment who are doing these atrocities inside aleppo. that you can do. so we can deplore, you can deplore but you have the power tomorrow in the european council, to take that decision. and that’s my request to you. not only to come here and say, yeah, there’s a problem, but to take an initiative, and the initiative can only be that europe is launching a new package of sanctions against these people if they don’t comply with these three human - i should stress, human - requests that we have today in the case of aleppo. and that’s also the reason why i hope that on the defence union we make progress, as has been said by president juncker, not only by making a fund, i think jean-claude, but also by starting to integrate all these multiple forms of defence cooperation we have in the european union. there’s an inflation of defence cooperation inside the union. we have the benelux, we have the baltics working together, the scandinavian countries working together, we have eurocorps, we have the french-italian cooperation, we have the dutch-german cooperation. what we need to do is to integrate that into a defence union and with eurocorps in one structure, so that we can find a solution to the scandal we have today, that we are in fact spending 42% of the american expenditure on the military and we can only carry out 15% of their operations in reality, that means that we are three to four times less effective than the american army; that’s the reality. so, second thing, on the defence union: finally take the decision and start first of all, the proposals from the commission and then further on. and then the third point, i have seen that in the council conclusions there is also a point on the format of the brexit negotiations. i have to ask you: in what time are you living for the moment in the council? i think you are still in the 20th century, or something like that, before the 1970s, because i have the impression that you have never read the treaty of maastricht and the treaty of lisbon and the powers of the european union and the european parliament. what they are proposing is simply to say, ah, we go forward with the brexit negotiations, but without the parliament. we can invite sherpas, maybe, but that’s it. that’s all. you are not aware that we have to approve these arrangements? you are aware of it? ok, that’s already an enormous step forward, but i am going to tell you it’s time that you also involved parliament from day one. do you want that we open separate negotiations with the british authorities? isn’t that what you want? you can get it. if that’s what the heads of state want, we are going to do it: parallel negotiations. i don’t want it. but apparently the council wants it. maybe i can give you, i don’t know who gave it to me a few minutes ago, it’s a famous phrase of lyndon b. johnson. now lyndon b. johnson’s not always very accurate, but ok i’m going to use it. he said once: better to have him inside the tent pissing out than outside the tent pissing in. maybe that’s a good reality that you can recall to the european council. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i do not think that was a question from mr coburn. the only thing i know is that this morning the spokesperson of the ministry of foreign affairs of the united states of america has said that, for the moment, the russians and the assad regime are not fighting against islamic state. what they are doing is fighting against the moderate opposition, to get rid of them. i am not saying that – this is the intelligence that the americans have for the moment, and if you continue to support these russian and assad atrocities, i think you are also co-responsible for the humanitarian crisis that is happening in aleppo.
"blue card" question. what is it? mr de graaf, your statements are intolerable in this european parliament. europe is very much concerned with women's rights and human rights. your comments are pure racism: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of illegal immigration. i am disgusted by your remarks and i would like you, mr president, to strike them out of the minutes. this is unworthy of a european parliament!
4733: the so many people drowned in the mediterranean in 2016, families, mothers, fathers, children. that is a living disgrace. 4733! what are you doing? we must ask ourselves whether the european union is really doing everything it can to stop this. yeah, we're coming in now with the new coast guard and border patrol. yes, there are the new plans of the european commission to improve the situation in africa so that fewer people leave. but let's be honest, that's not going to make for any fewer drownings. for that we need an ambitious anti-drowning plan for the whole of the mediterranean, with pushbacks, with ceilings, with ambitious take-back agreements for various countries in the maghreb. that's what it takes. that should be our priority. but let's not kid ourselves. winter is coming. spring will be here very soon. if we do not act now, if we do nothing now, the mediterranean will remain a mass grave and that is unforgivable.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i understand mrs lunacek's concerns and we have worked hard on this, indeed, between the afet and inta committees. these concerns were reflected in the resolution. so we have a consent, accompanied by a resolution, that asks the uzbek government to continue the efforts that it has been making for over five years to eradicate child labour in uzbekistan and today, with the ilo, we continue to work to end forced labour. i don't think the relationship of trust is one-way, mrs. lunacek. uzbekistan has done a remarkable job. it is not over, and there is still a lot to be done in uzbekistan, but if we want to gain trust, we also need to make a move. that is the gesture we are making today.
- i'm the reporter. i won't take up much of your time. i would point out that this is the ninth time this year that we have appointed a new member to the court of auditors. at the beginning of 2016, there were still 5 women out of 28 members of the court of auditors. with the appointment of this estonian member, we are down to the level of 3 women to 28. this is an unacceptably low number. we need action. we successfully pressured commissioner juncker in 2014 to ensure that his commission had no fewer female members than the barroso commission. so let us now take action together to ensure that the member states also nominate women as candidates for the court of auditors. women have their place in the court of auditors. let's fight for it together.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which aims to replace the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b to regulation 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings following a substantial reform of polish domestic law on restructuring.
in writing. following poland's request to amend the lists in annex a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings which entered into force on 26 june 2015, i voted in favour of the proposal to replace those lists. this is to ensure that the scope of the regulation reflects the legal framework in each member state on insolvency.
in writing. ‒ i supported this legislative resolution of the european parliament of 14 december 2016 which replaces the lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners in annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 on insolvency proceedings. annexes a and b to regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council list the names given in the national law of the member states to the insolvency proceedings and the insolvency practitioners to which that regulation applies.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the proposal's objective and its content in general terms. i also voted in favour of the technical amendments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because poland notified the commission in december 2015 of a significant reform of its national restructuring legislation, with an effective date of 1 january 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this recommendation by my colleague maria arena, which proposes, by means of a protocol, to extend the cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and uzbekistan, of the other part, to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral agreement on textiles. this would include, inter alia, the granting of most favoured nation status on a reciprocal basis, trade free of quantitative restrictions, a safeguard clause and the principle of transit. the negotiations for the implementation of this protocol were facilitated in particular by the fact that child labour in the cotton harvesting sector had been virtually eliminated according to the last ilo monitoring mission to uzbekistan in 2015. unfortunately, the same cannot be said for the situation of forced labour. the report therefore states that parliament will adopt appropriate measures if the uzbek authorities suspend implementation of their commitment to abolish forced labour.
cotton production is the most important economic sector in the eu-uzbekistan trade relationship. this separate resolution evaluates the cooperation between the uzbek government and the international labour organisation. this cooperation will allow an assessment of the steps taken by the uzbek authorities to end child and forced labour during cotton harvesting in uzbekistan. i am glad that this cooperation has led to the reduction of child labour and its social tolerance. but despite this measurable progress on child labour, this is not yet the case for forced labour in the cotton industry. it is therefore appropriate and necessary to encourage the uzbek government to carry out national awareness campaigns and to carry out intensive controls aimed at improving working conditions in its country. therefore, the cooperation agreement should not only be read as the logical conclusion of the efforts made to eliminate child labour but also as a permanent instrument of the european union to evaluate the commitments on better working conditions to which the uzbek government is committed.
in writing. ‒ in december 2011, parliament had already adopted an interim report on the issue, which made the consent of the house conditional on improvement of the human rights situation in uzbekistan. since then, the international labour organisation has conducted three observation missions, which have resulted in the near-eradication of child labour. it was on this basis that parliament agreed, among other things, to include textiles in the 1999 eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement. the decision was intended at the time to encourage the government of the country to pursue the eradication of all forms of forced labour and to strengthen its cooperation with the european union. in the non-legislative resolution adopted at noon, parliament welcomed the fact that uzbekistan had started to cooperate with the international labour organisation, but urged the uzbek authorities to speed up the deployment of national awareness campaigns to eradicate the practice altogether. parliament will therefore continue to follow the case and could still, as a last resort, ask the european commission and the council to suspend the agreement if the authorities do not comply with their commitments to abolish forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i followed the rapporteur maria arena on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the said agreement in order to extend its provisions to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral agreement on textiles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the european parliament adopted an interim report in december 2011 which makes its approval conditional on improving the human rights situation in uzbekistan with emphasis on child labour and forced labour in the annual cotton harvest.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report by my colleague marie arena, which proposes, by means of a protocol, to extend the cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and uzbekistan, of the other part, to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral agreement on textiles. this would include, inter alia, the granting of most favoured nation status on a reciprocal basis, trade free of quantitative restrictions, a safeguard clause and the principle of transit. the negotiations for the implementation of this protocol were facilitated in particular by the fact that child labour in the cotton harvesting sector had been virtually eliminated according to the last ilo monitoring mission to uzbekistan in 2015. unfortunately, the same cannot be said for the situation of forced labour. the report therefore states that parliament will adopt appropriate measures if the uzbek authorities suspend implementation of their commitment to abolish forced labour.
in writing. in this report, the ep calls for the organisation of eu-uzbekistan textile trade by adding a protocol to the existing cooperation agreement concluded by both partners since 1999. this amendment to the agreement is necessary because the textile trade, and in particular the cotton production, is the most important sector in the trade relations between the eu and uzbekistan. this extension recognises the progress made in curbing child labour during the cotton harvest. the report urges the next uzbek president to continue on the path already taken and immediately put an end to all forms of forced labour during the cotton harvest. parliament rightly calls for uzbekistan to embark on a transition towards better working conditions, better governance and democratic reforms. as regards the need for full transparency in the textile sector, i support the request to the commission to work on measures which help to improve working conditions, health and safety in the clothing sector in third countries.
in writing. ‒ in december 2011, parliament had already adopted an interim report on the issue, which made the consent of the house conditional on improvement of the human rights situation in uzbekistan. since then, the international labour organisation has conducted three observation missions, which have resulted in the near-eradication of child labour. it was on this basis that parliament agreed, among other things, to include textiles in the 1999 eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement. the decision was intended at the time to encourage the government of the country to pursue the eradication of all forms of forced labour and to strengthen its cooperation with the european union. in the non-legislative resolution adopted at noon, parliament welcomed the fact that uzbekistan had started to cooperate with the international labour organisation, but urged the uzbek authorities to speed up the deployment of national awareness campaigns to eradicate the practice altogether. parliament will therefore continue to follow the case and could still, as a last resort, ask the european commission and the council to suspend the agreement if the authorities do not comply with their commitments to abolish forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i have followed the opinion of my fellow rapporteur maria arena on the report containing a proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, amending that agreement in order to extend its provisions to bilateral trade in textiles, taking into account the expiry of the bilateral agreement on textiles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the european parliament welcomes the significant progress made by uzbekistan since 2013, including the adoption of laws prohibiting the use of child labour, which has led the country to virtually eliminate child labour.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report on the conclusion of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the union, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, to take account of the accession of ecuador. the report stresses that this accession will give ecuador the opportunity to pursue its policy of sustainable economic and social development in a difficult regional and international context.
in writing. ‒ i supported the accession agreement of ecuador to the trade agreement between the eu, colombia and peru. this agreement is crucial for the economy of ecuador, which has been hit hard by the fall in oil prices and exports, and by the high costs of reconstruction after this year's earthquake. it can pave the way for progressive social and environmental policies. the eu also has a lot to gain from this, as as soon as the agreement comes into force, ecuador will remove customs duties on 60% of its imports from the eu. ecuador will also benefit from optimized access to the eu for its main exports, such as fish, cut flowers, coffee, cocoa, fruit and nuts. some products will also benefit from a preferential rate, but a stabilisation mechanism, set up through other legislation, will ensure that the interests of european producers are protected.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report setting out the amendments to be made to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement to take account of the accession of ecuador. this agreement, which will enter into force on 1 january 2017, is essential for ecuador. it will stimulate trade and investment between the two sides, thus contributing to economic growth and job creation. it will allow ecuador to integrate into the regional and global economy. this asymmetrical agreement, designed to contribute to the development of ecuador, provides, as in the epas, for a gradual liberalization of customs duties over a period of 17 years. ecuador will benefit from better access to the european market for fishery products, cut flowers, coffee, cocoa, fruit and nuts. bananas will be granted a preferential tariff with a stabilisation mechanism, as is the case with the other countries party to the agreement. with this agreement, ecuador will be able to take better advantage of the opportunities offered by international trade.
in writing. ‒ trade negotiations between the european union and colombia, ecuador and peru started in january 2009. negotiations with ecuador were concluded on 17 july 2014. by joining the agreement, ecuador will retain its preferential access to the eu market, which it would have lost as a result of a reform of the european system of preferences. i voted in favour of this recommendation, which is a vital agreement for the country's economy, which has been hit hard by the fall in oil prices and exports and by the high costs of reconstruction following this year's earthquake (for reference: a disaster that killed 673 people and injured tens of thousands more).
in writing. ‒ in 2012, the european union and the 28 member states concluded a trade agreement with colombia and peru. now they want to bring ecuador into the fold. the ecuadorian government is feeling internal pressure from actors who are in favour of accession for alleged economic benefits. the greens are against, as we were against the conclusion of an agreement with colombia and peru. we do not accept the idea that the far-left rapporteur is ideologically supporting the left government in ecuador. it is important to us that civil society in ecuador is against it. there is a broad front, from environmental organizations to farmers' organizations, that is expressly opposed to this course of action. environmental ngos fear that accession will be a step backwards and a return to the model of depletion, which will mainly affect indigenous peoples and small farmers. i do not support such an economic model. so i voted against it with conviction.
in writing. ‒ we have approved the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and to provide the european parliament with a report on the implementation of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) and the implementation of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because ecuador's accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, is a significant step forward in relations with ecuador, which has become an important, like-minded regional partner.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this recommendation which proposes to renew the old agreements on reciprocal access to fishing activities of denmark, norway and sweden in the skagerrak area while ensuring the implementation of conservation measures and the proper management of fisheries in this area.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament's approval of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and norway on historic access to fishing activities in the skagerrak. this is a fishing area in which norwegian, danish and swedish fishermen are active. this agreement replaces an earlier agreement on reciprocal access to fishing activities in this area and respects historical fishing rights in these waters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden to fishing activities in the skagerrak. i agree with parliament that this agreement should be concluded.
in writing. - i voted for the text. traditionally, fishermen do not fish in certain waters but fish for specific stocks or species in the waters where those stocks and species are found, and they follow migratory species. this tradition predates the creation of states and the recognition of territorial waters and exclusive economic zones, which appeared much later. the skagerrak and kattegat area is a typical example of this situation. swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together in these waters for the same stocks since at least the middle ages. the fact that two of these three countries have become member states does not alter the principle that fishermen from these three countries should be able to enjoy historical fishing rights in the skagerrak and kattegat area. respect for these historic fishing rights is of the utmost importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the new agreement maintains the exclusive access of vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to each other's waters beyond four nautical miles measured from the baselines.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report which proposes to renew the old agreements on reciprocal access to fishing activities of denmark, norway and sweden in the skagerrak area while ensuring the implementation of conservation measures and the proper management of fisheries in this area.
in writing. i welcome the non-legislative motion for a resolution on the draft council decision on the agreement between the european union and norway on reciprocal access to fishing activities in the skagerrak. these waters, which lie between the danish, swedish and norwegian territories, are the subject of fishing activities by fishermen from these three countries. i am pleased that the agreement in question incorporates principles that are important to the new common fisheries policy, such as the landing obligation and the exploitation of stocks to achieve maximum sustainable yield.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden to fishing activities in the skagerrak. with this non-legislative resolution, the european parliament gives its approval to this agreement providing that fishermen from denmark, norway and sweden can continue to fish together in the kattegat and skagerrak as they have always done. parliament also asked the commission and the council to keep it informed of the procedures relating to the agreement and its renewal.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this text as well. traditionally, fishermen do not fish in certain waters, but fish for specific stocks or species in the waters where those stocks and species are found, and they follow migratory species. this tradition predates the creation of states and the recognition of territorial waters and exclusive economic zones, which appeared much later. the skagerrak and kattegat area is a typical example of this situation. swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together in these waters for the same stocks since at least the middle ages. the fact that two of these three countries have become member states does not alter the principle that fishermen from these three countries should be able to enjoy historical fishing rights in the skagerrak and kattegat area. respect for these historic fishing rights is of the utmost importance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the agreement maintains the historical fishing rights of fishermen from denmark, norway and sweden in the kattegat and skagerrak, without prejudice to the rights of fishermen from other countries, while at the same time ensuring that appropriate measures are taken for fisheries management and maintenance in these waters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it will strengthen the exchange of information between georgia and europol. according to europol, georgia plays an important role in the fight against terrorism and organised crime as a transit country for foreign fighters. therefore, a reinforcement of operational cooperation between europol and georgia is necessary. information exchanged will include personal data (but with adequate control), specialist knowledge, general reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on crime prevention methods.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of parliament's approval of the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol. the aim of this agreement is to support and strengthen the action of the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in the prevention of organised crime, terrorism and other serious forms of crime. it provides for the exchange of operational, strategic or technical information, including personal data and classified information. in order to be able to be more effective in preventing and combating serious forms of crime, and in particular in view of the fact that georgia is a close neighbour of the union, with which georgia has many links and exchanges, it seemed appropriate for our police agency to conclude such an agreement on operational and strategic cooperation with georgia.
in writing. parliament was consulted on the conclusion of a strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol. this new international agreement strengthens europol's cooperation with third countries, which is an essential tool for europol's work. i would nevertheless like to stress that the conclusion of this agreement should have been made after the entry into force of the new europol regulation scheduled for may 2017. the new regulation provides for enhanced guarantees, in particular in the area of data protection. moreover, after the entry into force of the new regulation, the european parliament will have more prerogatives in concluding such international agreements. the role of parliament in these matters must be defended. it is therefore important that the conclusion of any new agreement complies with the new rules which will be coming into force shortly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on the european commission to evaluate, after the entry into force of the new europol regulation, the provisions contained in the cooperation agreement and which calls on the commission to inform parliament and the council of the conclusions of this evaluation and, if necessary, to make a recommendation with a view to authorising the opening of international renegotiation of this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague's text. europol appears to have a clear need to strengthen its operational cooperation with georgia. according to europol, georgia is playing an increasingly important role in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, in particular as a transit country for foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. in this context, the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia would therefore facilitate and intensify the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which is by definition international in nature.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because europol seems to have a clear operational need for enhanced cooperation with georgia. according to europol, georgia is becoming increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, in particular as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. in this respect, the conclusion of the strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia promotes and strengthens the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which is by definition international.
in writing. ‒ i have of course approved this intervention of the european globalisation adjustment fund of up to eur 856 800 to help the reintegration of 250 workers in the bosal company, which is active in the construction of motor vehicles and trailers. the company has suffered from the decline in demand in recent years, which resulted from the banking and financial crisis of 2008 and an increase in global production, especially in china. it is therefore quite appropriate that the union should provide funds to help workers to reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased that the plenary followed the position of the committee on budgets, of which i am a member, and voted to grant the amount of eur 856 800 requested by the spanish authorities. i welcome the allocation of this amount as it helps to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant following the bankruptcy and closure of bosal s.a., a company whose main activity was the manufacture of parts and accessories for motor vehicles. i think it is important to intervene because the european car industry is unfortunately the victim of very strong competition from asian manufacturers. indeed, the eu faced a decline of 0.5 million units in motor vehicle production between 2006 and 2015, while global production increased by 31.1%, notably in china as well as other countries in south-east asia.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is inevitable and goes hand in hand with the opening up of new markets, international competition, economic growth and job creation outstripping job losses in less competitive sectors. the main need is therefore for structural reforms to be able to match sustainable economic growth. this requires economic adjustment combined with a social policy adapted to the needs of the member states, which, in line with the treaties, are the first and most appropriate authorities. the nva delegation in the european parliament understands the objectives of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf), but is convinced that a european transfer union cannot be a means of tackling unemployment, nor can it replace much-needed structural reform policies. the n-va meps therefore voted against this report.
in writing. bosal s.a. in spain went bankrupt and consequently closed its doors, resulting in 250 redundancies and the loss of jobs. the mobilisation of the european adjustment fund for spain will support the reintegration of workers into the labour market and amounts to a total of eur 856 800. i voted in favour of mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain because the demand meets the conditions for financial allocations but also because i believe it is essential to support workers in their reintegration into the labour market not only by providing the necessary compensation but also by making the appropriate programmes available to them.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 14 december 2016 on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, following the request from spain egf/2016/004es/comunidad valenciana - automobile. the purpose of the application was to obtain a financial contribution from the fund following redundancies in the motor vehicle, trailer and semi-trailer construction sector in the community of valencia. parliament, together with the commission, agrees that the conditions for granting this aid are fulfilled. spain will therefore receive eur 856 800 for the reintegration of 250 workers made redundant, in the form of information sessions, entrepreneurship promotion campaigns, reintegration programmes and allowances.
in writing. ‒ it is normal for europe to intervene in such cases, it is a question of solidarity, a fundamental value. in order to mobilise the egf, the commission submitted to the budgetary authority a request for a transfer of a total amount of eur 856 000 from the egf reserve.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the european parliament welcomes spain's decision to offer training for the acquisition of certificates of competence, such as the passenger transport certificate, as well as for sectors or areas that offer or will offer opportunities, such as the food industry, the restaurant business, occupational risk prevention, quality control and environmental standards, projects in the field of heating, ventilation and air conditioning, and the maintenance of industrial equipment.
in writing. ‒ three texts were on the table for the vote on the fourth railway package: one on the standardisation of accounts, one on governance and the last on the public service obligation. we did not reject the first two. in the report on the governance directive, we have achieved our red line: private competition can be restricted if it infringes public service obligations. we have, however, strongly opposed the last text which called for a more advanced liberalisation of the public passenger rail service. this liberalization will not only be harmful to rail users but is even more so at the expense of workers, particularly because it does not introduce the automatic and compulsory transfer of staff in the event of a change of operator. the socialist meps felt that such a strong social guarantee was essential to ensure that competition did not come at the expense of workers' rights and did not open the way to other forms of social dumping. we led the way in parliament but we lost the vote to reject this text by 15 votes out of 751, the right wing having massively supported it.
in writing. the market part of the fourth railway package contains three legislative proposals. one of them is a commission proposal to repeal regulation (eec) no 1192/69. the purpose of the latter is to allow states to compensate railway undertakings for the costs of obligations, while other undertakings using other modes of transport are not covered. the 40 formerly state-owned enterprises receiving the aid are listed in the annex to the regulation. i voted in favour of this proposal to repeal regulation (eec) no 1192/69 because i believe that it no longer meets the needs of the present situation. in today's world, with the liberalisation of the railway market, this regulation no longer meets the challenges of today. the rail sector has undergone many changes and the regulation is no longer in line with the current legal environment and even discriminates against some companies not listed. it is time to have legislation that is in line with reality and able to meet the challenges of our time.
in writing. ‒ three texts were on the table for the vote on the fourth railway package: one on accounting standardisation, one on governance and the last on public service obligations. we did not reject the first two. in the report on the governance directive, we have got our red line respected: private competition can be restricted if it undermines public service obligations. we have, however, strongly opposed the last text which called for a more advanced liberalisation of the public passenger rail service. this liberalization will not only be harmful to rail users, but it is also at the expense of workers, in particular because it does not introduce the automatic and compulsory transfer of staff in the event of a change of operator. the socialist meps felt that such a strong social guarantee was essential to ensure that competition did not come at the expense of workers' rights and did not open the way to other forms of social dumping. we led the way in parliament but we lost the vote to reject this text by 15 votes out of 751, the right wing having massively supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the fourth railway package because this package of legislation aims to improve the competitiveness and quality of rail services by reducing administrative costs, introducing more competition in the passenger services sector and ensuring a level playing field for operators. at national level, my country has always been in favour of a deliberate opening up of the passenger transport market. following the adoption of the fourth railway package, the belgian authorities will still be able to award contracts directly to sncb, without competition, but on condition that the contracts include stricter performance requirements. in this case, the contracts shall contain requirements for punctuality and regularity of service, train quality and sufficient capacity. i consider this to be a breakthrough which will benefit users.
in writing. by voting for this report, which favours a deliberate opening-up of the passenger transport market, i am one of those who wish to improve the quality of railway services and services for users, and to increase the modal share of the train in passenger travel. this openness, together with a number of new rules applicable to all market participants in the interests of fairness, preserves the principle of direct award of public service contracts, a transitional period and the guarantee of optimal protection of workers in the event of public service contracts being transferred to new tenderers. our advantage is that we can continue to award public service contracts directly where the characteristics of an infrastructure do not lend themselves to a transition to the tendering procedure. this is a considerable concession for many member states, including belgium. it goes without saying that this direct allocation will have to lead to an improvement in the quality of services and/or cost efficiency; the proposal does not require any such requirement in the case of a tender procedure (no quality criterion, no performance monitoring).
in writing. ‒ i supported, as did a large majority of the plenary, the van de camp report amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 as regards the opening of the market for national rail passenger services. the main elements of the agreement reached with the council relate to the maintenance of public service missions, compensation linked to the net financial impact of public service obligations and social provisions, including rights and obligations relating to the transfer of staff. these are potentially explosive subjects, but they have been the subject of a well-balanced compromise. some important priorities for my political group have been taken into account by this trilogue agreement, which is good news. this is the sharp reduction in the direct award clauses, thus outside a genuine tender procedure, and the provision providing for better access to rolling stock for the traveller. is it necessary to recall that while the average price of a train ticket increased by 42,6% between 2005 and 2015, the satisfaction index of travellers decreased overall during the same period? the latter often deserve the title of 'rail adventurers'.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the competent authorities (ca) are obliged to clearly define the pso specifications in public passenger transport, including the geographical areas concerned.
in writing. ‒ three texts were on the table for the vote on the fourth railway package: one on accounting standardisation, one on governance and the last on public service obligations. we did not reject the first two. in the report on the governance directive, we have got our red line respected: private competition can be restricted if it undermines public service obligations. we have, however, strongly opposed the last text, which called for a more advanced liberalisation of the public passenger rail service. this liberalization will not only be harmful to rail users but is even more so at the expense of workers, particularly because it does not introduce the automatic and compulsory transfer of staff in the event of a change of operator. for the socialist meps, such a strong social guarantee was essential to ensure that competition did not come at the expense of workers' rights and did not open the way to other forms of social dumping. we led the way in parliament, but we lost the vote to reject this text by 15 votes out of 751, with the right wing supporting it massively.
in writing. the market part of the fourth railway package contains three legislative proposals. one of them is a commission proposal to amend directive 2012/34/eu. i decided to vote in favour of the proposal because the amendments aim not only to open up the rail transport market and improve the governance of the infrastructure manager, but also to strengthen competition and financial transparency and fair financing conditions. all this will make rail transport more attractive to european citizens, create jobs and boost the sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted for better governance of the infrastructure manager to ensure equal access to infrastructure.
in writing. the planning, development and operation of the trans-european transport network contribute to the achievement of important union objectives, such as the smooth functioning of the internal market and the strengthening of economic and social cohesion. the maritime network is an integral part of this, since 319 ports through which 96% of eu goods and 93% of eu passengers pass are covered by the guidelines on the trans-european transport network. however, we need to move towards more homogeneity in terms of quality of service within the ports of the trans-european transport network and improve their governance to attract investors. with this resolution, we will contribute to a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the trans-european transport network by creating a framework for ports to improve their performance and better cope with changing transport and logistics requirements.
in writing. ‒ after more than 15 years of debate on european port policy, the european parliament finally reached agreement this afternoon: the existing port management models can be maintained and, as a novelty, the focus is finally on good working conditions, which are an important part of the competitiveness of ports and which in my view were non-negotiable. the lack of clear rules on public funding of port infrastructure and charges for its use has so far hampered investment in ports. the new provisions adopted today are aimed in particular at making ports more efficient and more attractive to investors. these new rules will apply to more than 300 ports in the union mentioned in the guidelines for the trans-european transport network (ten-t). these include requiring ports to clearly show public funding received in their accounting systems and improving transparency so that port services and infrastructure charges are fixed. in order to ensure quality services, new requirements are therefore also laid down for port service providers to provide adequate training for employees, with particular emphasis on health and safety aspects.
in writing. ‒ this report on greater financial transparency in ports is misleading, as it only concerns the smaller ports in the southern member states. the new rules will not apply to the larger ports in the north and their structures will not therefore change. the report also lacks any convincing content and is mainly intended to save the commission's face. he doesn't want to be left out after two previous rejections of the port directive. the proposal we are voting on concerns the liberalization of services in marginal and restricted segments. the controversial freight and passenger handling is not included. what the sector needs - and there is agreement on this - is clarity on state aid. the commission has been promising this for 12 years, but has still not put it into practice. we tried with the greens to include measures on the environment and working conditions in the text, but almost everything was voted down, including the question of clarity on state aid. the report is so weak that it will pass under the rubric of 'no good, no harm', and in the meantime the commission will leave the sector alone. but i don't call that policy. that is why i did not support the report.
in writing. ‒ i support the commission's proposal in many respects, particularly in all aspects of financial transparency, but would nevertheless like to propose a number of amendments to improve it. only port services offered directly to the user should fall within the scope of the regulation. dredging is therefore excluded, as it is not a service offered directly to the user, but rather a maintenance task to maintain the practicability of access to the port.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because ports can contribute to the long-term competitiveness of european industry on the world market and at the same time create jobs in all the union's coastal regions.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution since i believe that ports are a very important contribution to the long-term competitiveness of european industries in world markets. moreover, ports are great providers of jobs in all european coastal regions. i believe that delays at ports represent a major obstacle to the competitiveness and efficiency of short sea shipping at union ports and this is often due to the complexity of administrative procedures for customs clearance. so a big economic advantage for ports could be achieved with a simplification of customs procedures. i support the use of a risk-based policy approach in order to avoid distortion of competition. i agree that a single system is not appropriate for the organisation of port services because this system is very diverse and includes many different models.
in writing. ‒ following the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i have approved the appointment of mr parts as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. i congratulate mr juhan parts on his appointment as a member of the court of auditors of the european union. his previous role in the field of justice and public finance is an asset for his new role as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament which assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular in the light of the conditions set out in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and because that committee subsequently held the hearing of the candidate for the post of member of the court of auditors on 5 december 2016, i voted in favour of this report, which gives a favourable opinion on the council's proposal to appoint juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on the proposed appointment of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors, a vote supervised by my colleague bart staes.
in writing. - is a secret ballot.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which proposes approval of the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel with amendments requesting that preference be given also to projects which deal with the impact of extractive operations on the employment of workers and the local community and on the health and safety of workers and the local community.
in writing. the frca programme provides approximately eur 50 million of funding each year for research and development and innovation in the coal and steel sectors. in order to play its full role, it was essential to increase the transparency of its operation and to facilitate access to funding for beneficiaries. research and development play a fundamental role in our society, not only from an economic point of view but also because they have the mission to shape the world of tomorrow.
in writing. ‒ having regard to protocol no 37 on the financial consequences of the expiry of the ecsc treaty and of the research fund for coal and steel, annexed to the treaty on european union and to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and having regard to the report of the committee on industry, research and energy of the european parliament, i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to amend its proposal accordingly, in accordance with article 293 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 106a of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the text written by the former president of the european parliament. the european union has been supporting coal and steel research for over fifty years. it all began in 1951 with the signing of the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community (ecsc). at the expiry of the treaty in 2002, it was agreed to use the ecsc assets (and the interest thereon) to set up a research fund for coal and steel (frca). the frca programme, managed by the commission, is financed by the revenue generated by the assets of the ecsc in liquidation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it is appropriate to promote the participation of smes in the sme guarantee scheme by, inter alia, simplifying the rules for the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the sme guarantee scheme and allowing the use of unit costs in the calculation of eligible personnel costs for sme owners and other natural persons not receiving a salary.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that coal and steel sectors are very important for the process of european integration. however, working conditions in those sectors are still resulting in harm to the health of workers and citizens. i agree with the call for installations and companies to respect all legal requirements and minimise possible harm caused by the transition or closure of installations. the coal and steel sectors are meant to provide positive outcomes, and continuing to perform research in this area will help those sectors to do so.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls on all the actors concerned to take full responsibility for their role in respecting human rights and democratic values as these rights are increasingly under threat in the world. in the face of this alarming situation, it is essential that the european institutions and member states place human rights at the centre of the union's external policies by firmly promoting and defending them. in this context, parliament welcomed the adoption of the second eu human rights and democracy plan (2015-2019) and encouraged the member states to implement the actions set out therein. other measures to achieve this are also encouraged in the report, including the strengthening of human rights dialogue with third countries. respect for these rights must be extended to all the world's people equally, whether they are women, children, the elderly, disabled or members of a minority. however, the issue is of particular concern for migrants, refugees and asylum seekers, who are victims of human trafficking networks and whose human rights are violated as they flee war.
in writing. despite the fact that the annual report on human rights in the world has become a classic in the ep, we remain extremely concerned about the increasing violations of human rights. it is the eu's job to show leadership and to act where human rights are under attack. this year's report rightly focuses on the instruments the eu uses to promote the idea of freedom, democracy and the rule of law. the eu's human rights policy should therefore be integrated into all policy areas with an external dimension. this also means drawing political conclusions when human rights dialogues do not produce the desired result. this year, we must also pay special attention to the many thousands of people who have been forced to flee war and armed conflict. these refugee flows are a challenge for europe, not only because effective solutions must be found, but also because in europe universal values are being tested to the point of threatening to divide our society. finally, i am concerned about those countries where executions are still carried out. the report rightly calls for the eu to fight the death penalty relentlessly.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which addresses the main challenges related to fundamental rights within the european union, in particular in the areas of migration and child protection. the vote on this text was not only an opportunity to deplore the increasing level of hate speech within certain institutions, political parties and media: the european union must set a good example. and in this particular case, the member states have a role to play. for example, they should step up their efforts to promote european values, tolerance and a sense of community, avoiding stigmatisation. but also in terms of migration. in 2015, 10 000 unaccompanied refugee and migrant children were reported missing in the european union. thus, vulnerable groups, including unaccompanied children, should be able to be identified as soon as possible. the resolution therefore calls on member states to strengthen guardianship systems for unaccompanied children and encourages them to keep families together. there's still a long way to go.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament wishes to use the council's annual report on european activities in the field of democracy and human rights in third world countries to launch a much-needed debate on the general european human rights policy. the report that has been adopted has become a difficult and heavy document to read. but fortunately it is spiced with a strong progressive key because of the many green dots that are included. the report is therefore much more ambitious than in previous years. the greens want to make their recommendations to show that we must wake up from the illusion that human rights are respected worldwide. the increase in violence and intimidation against human rights defenders is unfortunately just one example of this. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's arms embargo is not lifted. the report also contains a very innovative chapter on the rights of the elderly, which is included for the first time. this is a very good report. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of my colleague's text, whose concerns i share. i am deeply concerned that the promotion and protection of human rights and democratic values are under threat worldwide and that the universality of human rights is being seriously challenged in many parts of the world, including under certain totalitarian regimes and by terrorist groups such as daesh. we are also concerned about the growing efforts to reduce the space for civil society and human rights defenders, the increasing restriction of freedom of assembly and expression, and the proliferation of repressive laws around the world that have an impact on civil society. we need a clear condemnation!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because internal and external coherence in the field of human rights is essential for the credibility of eu human rights policy abroad.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe in the fundamental importance of human rights. as a liberal, i stand behind the battle against violence and discrimination against lgbti people. moreover, i believe that in the modern society, same sex marriages cannot be discriminated against any more and i believe that to make the union stronger, we have to take better care of minorities. also, religion discrimination cannot be allowed. i agree with the importance of engaging in human rights-specific dialogues with countries that are having serious human rights problems. i also agree with the fact that human rights discussions should never be subordinated to other interests in high-level political discussions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recalls the unprecedented internal and external challenges facing the european union. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the report calls on the high representative for foreign affairs, federica mogherini, to develop an implementation plan for security and defence with a view to achieving the first results in 2017. it also called on the commission to implement the instruments provided for in the lisbon treaty, in particular permanent structured cooperation and recent proposals such as the creation of a permanent civilian and military headquarters or the strengthening of the union's rapid reaction instruments. the report also regrets the limited budget allocated to foreign and security policy.
in writing. the current crises in the world and in europe's neighbourhood also threaten the eu. as these threats also effectively spill over into the eu, in the form of terrorist attacks and refugee flows, this has implications for the security and well-being of our citizens. but precisely for this reason, these crises are also a wake-up call for the eu and an opportunity to set in motion an effective foreign and security policy that will ensure peace, stability and prosperity in europe and beyond. i have approved this report because it offers an ambitious, balanced and realistic response to the security challenges. a mature european foreign policy is based on three pillars: the european union is a global player in the field of education, training and youth. a defence capability of our own with a permanent european military headquarters, as the european citizens are demanding, will enable us to combine our soft approach with a hard approach if necessary. moreover, with a european defence and deterrence capability, we are better prepared to act quickly, when all peaceful means have been exhausted, and in cooperation with international partners, to prevent serious human rights violations.
in writing. ‒ in this flagship report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy, which was adopted by 433 votes in favour (including mine), 174 against and 93 abstentions, the european parliament believes that european cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy could bring 'the greatest added value'. parliament stressed that europe's action should henceforth be guided by the will to ensure peace and stability on its continent, in its neighbourhood and in africa, and that the union's external action should be based on three pillars: diplomacy, development and defence (the three ds). parliament also stressed defence, stating that 'with the balance of power once again dominating international relations', 'defence and deterrence capabilities are essential if we are to have a say in diplomatic talks'.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the text put to the vote. the european union is one of the greatest achievements in european history and the union's capacity to bring about change has brought peace, stability and prosperity to its citizens and to its neighbouring countries, many of which have become member states of the union. it is important to stress that the union remains the world's leading economic power, the most generous provider of humanitarian and development aid and a tenor of global multilateral diplomacy on issues such as climate change, international justice, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and human rights. the visibility of union action in these areas must be enhanced. the current internal and external crisis may also provide the union with an opportunity to improve its functioning and cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the european union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflict, the collapse of states, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy security uncertainty, organised crime and climate change.
in writing. ‒ the volatility of prices on agricultural markets is a major handicap for farming. i therefore endorsed this report, which calls for a more forceful and coherent policy implementing targeted instruments at both national and union level to ensure sustainable and multifunctional agricultural production throughout the eu and fair and remunerative prices, in particular by reducing the negative effects on those most exposed to price volatility.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of this report on price volatility on agricultural markets and the cap tools that can reduce this volatility. price volatility has an impact on agricultural activity, farmers' income and food security. the european union, in the framework of the cap, must address this issue in order to combat the uncertainty generated by price volatility and its impact, in particular, on investment and innovation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which considers that the cap's historical tools for crisis management are no longer effective enough to face the challenges of a globalised economy. the text adopted therefore calls on the commission to set up public and private register tools, which can be combined or complement each other and provide for a binding early warning mechanism adapted to the needs, to ensure the proper functioning and to counter market crises. the report also calls for the creation of a crisis reserve outside the cap budget, which could be used to finance crisis management tools.
in writing. ‒ i cannot agree with this report, which makes price volatility in agricultural markets seem inevitable. of course, weather conditions and varying harvests are responsible for price fluctuations. but we'd better regulate the markets to limit the risk of heavy losses. we could, for example, ban speculation in food. or try to better match supply and demand and produce less surplus. the current aggressive export strategy of the european agricultural sector and its extreme dependence on markets outside the union are creating the known problems. the fruit and vegetable sector, but also dairy and pigmeat, are not finding a market - partly because of the russian boycott - or are seeing their prices plummet. to describe this as a "natural phenomenon" is a lie. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the environment. since the reform of the cap, the greens have been opposed to such instruments. they are eating the money from the funds for rural development. the fact that agricultural products are traded on a world market, and therefore involve financial risks, cannot be compensated for by this type of fund. the solution proposed is, by the way, symptomatic, but it is totally inadequate to the challenge we face.
in writing. - the financial markets have gone crazy. speculators even go so far as to attack agricultural markets, investing and divesting from food, causing extreme price fluctuations and economic shocks that create hunger in some parts of the world and bring many farmers to their knees. that is why we are voting today on a text which aims to put in place risk management tools to combat this volatility and stabilise the incomes of european farmers. the recent world economic, financial and food crises have thrown our farmers into an endless turmoil. we produce too much and our farmers sell at a loss. european agriculture is in danger. the great gods of the market, for whom no offering is enough, are killing an entire sector, destroying our producers and threatening the quality of our food. we must put an end to blind ultra-liberalism and put in place effective regulatory tools.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because price fluctuations for agricultural products can be exacerbated by political decisions, such as the imposition of a trade embargo.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in july 2014, president juncker, right here, said that if there were to be new structural adjustment plans - which he did not believe in - they should be subject to a social impact assessment. a year later, a new structural adjustment plan is imposed on greece, and the social impact, which has never been studied, has become quite visible: one million jobs lost since 2008, a third of the greek population exposed to poverty and exclusion, one in six workers exposed to poverty, while millions of greeks no longer have access to health care. meanwhile, the member states and the imf are joining forces to impose a new set of measures on greece, targeting the labour market once again, with the abolition of collective bargaining and the total liberalisation of redundancies. the juncker commission is not obliged to carry out social impact assessments. however, the commission itself has a legal obligation to be the guardian of the treaties, to enforce the law of the european union, including the charter of fundamental rights. it is well known that the measures advocated by the creditors in this and previous plans are in flagrant breach of european law. if the european union really wants to help greece, it can focus on four points. first, to ease the burden of the greek debt which is not repayable by the state. secondly, to help greece to establish an effective tax administration to combat fraud and evasion, an area in which successive greek governments have not really excelled. thirdly, stop sending refugees back to greece and, on the contrary, relieve greece frontline country of the burden of receiving refugees. it is probably the eu country with the least resources to do so. and finally, to mobilise investment. you will say to me: 'there is the juncker plan'. that's good. there is the juncker plan: 3% of the investment in the juncker plan goes to greece and, at the same time, 10% to germany, a country which no longer knows what to do with its savings. everyone will have understood that it is no longer a question of helping greece, but of teaching the lesson that there is no alternative to neoliberal globalisation. madam president, i will conclude by saying that they should begin to understand that 'who sows neoliberal globalisation reaps national populism'. when will they understand ?
madam president, i shall concentrate solely on the question of social dialogue, because i believe that our european model is based on this social dialogue. commissioner, you have said that you are willing to work with the social partners, and yet at present the greek social partners are no longer free to define the appropriate level of their consultations, with the direct effect of a drastic weakening of the protection of greek workers. so, commissioner, this is a serious breach of european fundamental rights. but you, commissioner, are responsible for ensuring that these fundamental rights are respected, not violated. it is therefore your duty to re-establish european law in greece and to give the social partners back the right to negotiate collective agreements at the level they consider appropriate.
mr president, on 1 october thousands of polish women took to the streets, not to support the kaczyński government, but to say that they had doubts about the protection of their physical integrity, because this government wanted to take measures to remove the protection of their physical integrity under the new abortion laws. it is our duty as elected members of the european parliament to defend these women, these polish women, who are asking to be defended in their physical integrity. that is what we are doing today, you are not the ones defending polish women, we are the ones defending polish women. i also ask the commission to integrate this gender issue when we talk about the issue of fundamental rights, because even if you are a woman, you are also entitled to the european fundamental rights.
mr president, it is indisputable, everyone agrees, that there was a serious problem at europol, and the fact that he is a former member of the police does not change the facts. of course, i admit, the fault is first of all individual. but this cannot hide the fact that there was a real breach in the security control procedures, because it is technically possible to prevent secure data from being copied by operators who have access to it. europol must come to the democratic institutions, that is to say the european parliament, and explain the measures it has taken. that said, we need europol, and i do not want anyone to take advantage of this incident to question the usefulness and credibility of europol. it is not when thousands of jihadists are returning to european territory, it is not when europol's counter-terrorism centre is becoming fully operational that we have to lay mines to undermine its credibility. strengthen the rigor of management and security procedures, yes. protecting personal data, yes. the commission is not going to be able to do that.
mr president, the ambition of the regulation has been a real step forward, but without wishing to trivialize the progress that has been made, we must nevertheless acknowledge that far, far too many obstacles still remain. it is essential to make medicines more accessible to children, while ensuring that they are safe. in some member states, including my own, reimbursement for a medicinal product for children is conditional upon the label stating that the medicinal product has been studied in the age groups concerned. it is therefore essential to encourage companies to carry out studies in children for the relevant molecules and indications. i insist that these are relevant studies, as this should not lead to blocking the arrival of generic medicines, which also help to save budgets. finally, it is imperative that pharmaceutical companies systematically develop paediatric investigation plans. this is a key condition for accelerating the development of treatments for children. we cannot ignore this fundamental issue.
for the enf group only totalitarian regimes or political structures with totalitarian features can afford to ignore or aggressively treat the national identity of the people living under their rule. that is certainly the case for communist regimes and it is part of the reason why i have always been anti-communist. in these years of historic change, with the growing contribution of national identity to a world that is becoming ever smaller, we must stand by the tibetan people, who are peacefully trying to prevent their downfall in the face of a chinese regime with which we can only deal with great reluctance, both literally and figuratively.
mr president, daesh is a monster, a criminal monster, no one doubts that. in addition to the testimonies of the victims still alive, the mass graves that are discovered every day in syria and iraq bear tragic witness to this. daesh is a criminal monster, guilty of genocide, guilty of the whole panoply of crimes against humanity, for which the initiators, the perpetrators, the financiers, the accomplices and the executors will have to answer to international justice. but criminal monsters have other faces too. what else can be said about those who are now bombing the women and children of aleppo? what else can be said of those who today starve their own people and bomb hospitals in defiance of all the laws of war? in the face of such atrocities, statements are not enough. i ask the european council meeting today not to be content with press releases but to take decisions, to make vladimir putin understand that he has crossed the line and that the european union will not tolerate any more. i am proud to be european, and i don't want to start feeling ashamed of it.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this report, which revises the mechanism for suspending the visa exemption for nationals of certain countries. the activation of this mechanism may be requested by a member state or the commission itself in the event of a sudden and significant increase in the number of irregular migrants from third countries, an influx of unfounded asylum applications by third country nationals, a decrease in the cooperation of a third country with regard to readmission applications and, henceforth, in the event of an increased risk or imminent threat to public policy or national security. the commission will have to examine the request of the member state concerned and take a decision by means of a delegated act, which will require extensive consultations and a thorough examination of the situation. the european parliament will also play a role in this, which was not the case before. he shall be kept informed by the commission and may reject any proposal for extension of the temporary suspension period made by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal to revise the visa suspension mechanism regulation. since 2001, the union has pursued a visa liberalisation policy with many countries. it therefore has a common list of countries whose nationals must be in possession of a visa to cross the union's borders and a list of countries whose nationals are exempt from this requirement. this proposal for a review is linked to the proposals to grant visa-free access to the union to georgia, ukraine and kosovo. visa liberalisation for an increasing number of countries makes it necessary to establish a temporary visa-restoration mechanism. it may happen that the visa exemption leads to such a massive influx of third country nationals that it becomes difficult to control. security considerations may also result in the reintroduction of certain forms of control, in particular by the reintroduction of visas. in reality, the visa liberalisation policy and the temporary visa-restoration mechanism are the two complementary aspects of a responsible policy on access to the territory of the union.
in writing. i welcome the adoption by the european parliament of a text on the suspension mechanism applicable to visa liberalisation agreements. it aims to facilitate the triggering of the mechanism and to speed up the procedure, since the visa exemption for third-country nationals is to be suspended. the grounds for suspension have also been extended. i would also like to stress the establishment of a monitoring mechanism to ensure that third countries continue to comply with the conditions that prevailed at the time of visa liberalisation.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of this tool which should bring more flexibility and operability. under the new rules, visa-free agreements with third countries may be suspended, in which case citizens of these countries will again need a visa to travel to the union. both the member states and the european commission will be able to trigger the suspension mechanism. the text underlines that the decision to temporarily suspend the visa waiver must be based on relevant and objective data. after a notification by a member state (or a request from a simple majority of member states), or on the basis of its own report, the commission will have one month to decide whether to suspend the visa exemption for a period of nine months. this decision will take effect automatically. the commission will also be responsible for closely monitoring the situation in the countries benefiting from the visa exemption and for informing parliament and the council, at least once a year, of whether or not the conditions for exemption (in particular with regard to respect for human rights) have been met.
in writing. ‒ n-va is particularly in favour of a strictly revised suspension mechanism, so that we can temporarily suspend and even revoke the visa exemption granted to a certain country if necessary. unfortunately, what's on the table doesn't go far enough. there's been some progress. there will be tighter deadlines and additional grounds for suspension. the visa exemption may be withdrawn when a country refuses to take back rejected asylum seekers and economic migrants. however, there are several elements that call into question the underlying political agenda. is it really the intention to develop an efficient suspension mechanism? does anyone want to use the introduction of this suspension mechanism as an argument to grant a quick visa exemption to, say, turkey? are there sufficient guarantees that this will not circumvent the correct use of the asylum procedure? why is the scope narrowed down to only certain categories of passport holders as opposed to an entire nationality? a strengthened suspension mechanism is necessary, but it must be effective and put in place with the right motivation. there are still too many questions about that today. the n-va delegation, by abstaining, calls for a clear answer to these questions. in any event, we will take the objections and concerns raised into account in considering all future requests for visa exemption.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the rapporteur that from a legal point of view it is desirable and essential that the european parliament be involved in the decision-making process, since the reintroduction of the visa requirement for third-country nationals is one of the most drastic political measures that can be applied. in accordance with the above, the suspension mechanism should be amended as regards the use of delegated acts following the judgment of the court of justice of 16 july 2015, which has already ruled on the issue related to the reciprocity mechanism. the two mechanisms are two sides of the same coin and constitute legislative and policy counterbalances with similar effects, the procedures of which need to be harmonised.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this resolution, which considers that the commission's proposal for an implementing directive is not in line with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (eu) 2016/2031, which is to determine the phytosanitary risk posed by any species, strain or biotype of a pathogenic agent, animal or plant parasite harmful to plants or plant products, or with the measures to reduce the risk to an acceptable level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection because, at present, the measures envisaged to prevent the introduction into the union of new plant pests, which attack citrus fruits, are not sufficiently stringent to protect union producers. the draft implementing directive, as proposed by the commission, does not reduce the risks of importing exotic pests. it is therefore urgent to introduce stricter rules to protect citrus fruit in the union and thus prevent the spread of, inter alia, citrus blackheads and false carpocapse. we cannot afford to be passive or passive in the face of this problem. it is important to act quickly!
in writing. during the summer months, europe imports its citrus fruits from third countries. but just as the eu in an open economy sets high standards for food produced and harvested within the eu, we apply the same criteria to food imported. in the specific case of citrus imports, we must be able to offer consumers good quality fruit, but at the same time we must ensure that the feared pathogens do not gain a foothold here. i am very interested in the certification and labelling of foodstuffs. this allows the producer to assure the customer of the best quality of his products and, if a food incident occurs, to address the problem directly at source. that is the proposal for an opinion which i have approved. by imposing preventive cold treatment on imports of citrus fruit for a period of 27 days, the commission has taken a hasty measure which precludes any other effective measure, is not sufficiently scientifically based and will raise prices for citrus fruit on store shelves. i voted against this, not least because you can prevent possible incidents with citrus fruits at source rather than on the way.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which calls on the commission to amend its directive. the draft implementing directive, as proposed by the commission, does not, as it stands, reduce the risks associated with the import of exotic pests to an acceptable level, which is why we want stricter rules. the european parliament voted against the proposal and wanted to introduce appropriate rules to avoid a tragedy similar to that of the xylella bacteria in the areas of the union that produce citrus fruit. for example, to prevent the introduction into the union of black spot disease of citrus fruits, a fungal disease, it will now be necessary to prove that at least 600 fruit samples from each 30 tonne lot have been checked before packaging and that fruit showing symptoms of the disease are properly tested. citrus fruit potentially infected by a false carpocapsa larva will then have to undergo cold treatment or other equally effective and long-lasting treatments before being imported into the union. the text also aims to improve the traceability of imported citrus fruit.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur. i consider that the commission's proposal for an implementing directive is not in accordance with union law, as it is not compatible with the objective of regulation (eu) 2016/2031, which is to determine the phytosanitary risk posed by any species, strain or biotype of a pathogenic agent, animal or plant parasite harmful to plants or plant products.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this joint resolution, which first recalls the tragedy caused by the marketing of thalidomide in the late 1950s and early 1960s, which led to the death or deformation of thousands of newborns in many european countries. it also called on the member states and the commission to coordinate actions and measures to officially recognise and compensate survivors of thalidomide. it also called on the german government to provide access for victims recognised by the thalidomide foundation for the disabled. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because i am in favour of better access to compensation for thalidomide victims. this german drug, prescribed to pregnant women for morning sickness, caused many malformations and even deaths of newborns in the 1950's and 1960's. following the revelations about the disastrous consequences of taking this medicine, i find it unacceptable that at the present time victims are still fighting for fair compensation in several eu countries. i think it is important that the citizens concerned have access to similar compensation in all the member states. to this end, it is urgent that the european commission establishes a framework protocol at european level under which all eu citizens affected by thalidomide would receive such compensation. it is also important that the commission develops as soon as possible a european programme of aid and support for victims and their families.
it is now more than 50 years since the use of the german-made "safe" drug thalidomide for morning sickness led to many thousands of children being poisoned in the womb and born with severe disabilities. many are still waiting for fair compensation for the daily discomforts and limitations they experience as a result of thalidomide. the resolution urges the german authorities to provide access to the available financial resources for recognised victims so that they have the appropriate means to improve their quality of life.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on support for thalidomide survivors. this drug, marketed in the 1950s and 1960s to treat headaches, coughs, insomnia, colds and nausea related to pregnancy, has actually been found to cause newborn deaths and serious birth defects. at the time of the trial against the manufacturer grünenthal gmbh, his guilt could not be established in a genuine manner because of interference in criminal proceedings. in the face of the limited efforts made since then to help thalidomide survivors, the european parliament had already raised its voice at its march 2016 plenary session to underline the urgency of providing assistance and improving the quality of life of those affected by this scandal. the european parliament resolution calls on the member states and the commission to coordinate actions and measures to officially recognise and, above all, compensate survivors of thalidomide, in particular by establishing a framework protocol at european level.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the claims of surviving thalidomide victims in europe must be fully recognised in order to ensure their autonomy, access to medical care and a good quality of life. we call on the commission to deliver on the commitments made by commissioner andriukaitis at the parliament's plenary session on 9 march 2016 by establishing an assistance programme that complements member states' action to provide financial support to thalidomide victims and their families.
in writing. – i support this resolution because i think it is important for the victims of thalidomide to get the recognition and support they deserve. many errors have been made in the past, among them a lack of pharmacovigilance, and it is important that the survivors can get compensation for the harm done.
mr president, we need politicians who are committed to supporting access for children to innovative medicines, despite their cost. i therefore cross my fingers for the vote in plenary on thursday, 15 december, and also for the follow-up to be given by the european commission, and i welcome our commissioner, who is here today. i just read you an excerpt from the email, amongst all the others, that i received the day before yesterday. this one is from mrs. heynens, one of the mothers i worked with to write this resolution. rhabdomyosarcoma is the most common soft tissue cancer in children and adolescents. treatment involves chemotherapy, surgery and, in many cases, radiation therapy today. it is obviously a heavy one, and because it is unacceptable that in the last ten years only two innovative medicines specific to children have been developed, we must impose this virtuous circle, force the development of treatments for cancer and other diseases that affect children. protecting the weakest among us is more than ever our mission, it is more than ever europe's mission.
in writing. ‒ i supported, with the whole socialist group, this resolution which aims to amend the regulation on paediatric medicines. the resolution, which was approved by a large majority in the european parliament, calls on the european commission to draw up a detailed report on the obstacles which still hinder innovation in paediatric medicines. on this basis, it will have to make the necessary proposals for amendments to remove these obstacles. in view of the tragedy of childhood cancer, every effort should be made to provide the most effective medical solutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text which calls on the commission to present the report on paediatric medicines in a timely manner and stresses that this report must allow for a full identification and in-depth analysis of the current barriers to innovation in medicines for children. the adopted text also calls on the commission to examine the possibility of amending the regulation on medicinal products for paediatric use, including through legislative revision, to take better account of the following: paediatric development plans which should be based on the mechanism of action and not only on the type of disease; models that should be developed to prioritise diseases and medicines in a way that takes into account unmet paediatric medical needs, incentives that should be put in place to better stimulate research and better meet the needs of the paediatric population, while ensuring that an assessment of research and development costs is carried out and ensuring full transparency of clinical outcomes, etc.
in writing. - i voted for this proposal. we ask the commission to present the report provided for in article 50 of the paediatric medicines regulation in due course. the report should allow a comprehensive identification and in-depth analysis of the current barriers to innovation in paediatric medicines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because significantly better access to innovative therapies can save the lives of children and adolescents with life-threatening diseases such as cancer.
in writing. – i fully support the resolution on paediatric medicines because there is clearly a lack of focus on children’s diseases. in general i think we have to set the right framework that offers incentives for these companies to make the large investments necessary in terms of r&d to fill this gap. the paediatric medicines regulation has already addressed this problem to an extent, but revision is necessary, especially in the light of a lack in advances in paediatric oncology and neonatology. we need to do whatever we can from a regulatory perspective to ensure that new and innovative medicines can make it to the patient as fast as possible.
in writing. the right to petition is of great importance as a pillar of european citizenship and an element of participatory democracy. it recognises the right of eu residents and citizens to express directly to the ep their concerns about policies and legislative measures affecting them. in 2015, the european parliament received 1 431 petitions. these mainly concerned the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights. the petitioners use this tool of democracy to make their proposals for european policy-making heard, but also to challenge decisions taken by national authorities, or to denounce shortcomings in the application of eu law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which stresses that the right of petition has the role of strengthening the european parliament's capacity to react, by helping to solve problems related mainly to the application of union law, since petitions which fall within the union's fields of activity and meet the admissibility criteria are a valuable source of information for detecting possible breaches of european legislation. the adopted text calls on the commission to make greater use of its powers to ensure effective implementation of eu legislation, in particular by using the infringement procedure under articles 258 and 260 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union more quickly. in 2015, 431 petitions were received by the committee on petitions, a decrease of 47% compared to 2014, when the european parliament received 2 714 petitions.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the 2015 annual report aims to provide an overview of the work of the committee on petitions, whose timetable does not correspond to the european commission's legislative programme but is set by citizens who, in exercising their right to petition the european parliament, raise concerns about the various union policies and legislative measures. this annual report is intended to give a precise and complete picture of the work of the committee on petitions. it presents statistics on the number of petitions received, processed or closed by the committee on petitions, the countries concerned and the topics covered. these statistics are an important quantitative tool for evaluating the work of the commission. this report also looks at other aspects of the commission's work, such as relations with the other european institutions and with national and regional authorities.
in writing. ‒ as the european commission proposed in its aviation strategy for europe to open negotiations on civil aviation safety with japan and china, and on air services agreements at union level with china, turkey, mexico, six gulf cooperation council member states, armenia and asean, and as parliament's consent is required for the conclusion of international agreements in areas where the ordinary legislative procedure applies, i supported this report which expects the european executive to inform the competent committee of parliament of its intention to propose the opening of negotiations for the conclusion and amendment of international air services agreements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which is the result of a relevant question to the commission. in order to be able to decide whether to give its consent or not at the end of the negotiations, parliament must follow the procedure from the outset. it is also in the interest of the other institutions to identify and resolve as soon as possible any problems which might dissuade parliament from giving its consent in advance.
