mr president, first of all i would like to say that i absolutely echo what my colleague brian hayes said. secondly, i would like to focus on the position of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and mention three points from our report, which the rapporteur took on board. one of them is innovation. competition and innovation are interconnected and both are crucially important for economic growth and prosperity. e-government and e-governance are instrumental in the efficient monitoring of infringements and for ensuring transparency in both the public as well as the private sector. last but not least, the smooth functioning of competition in e-commerce not only contributes to economic growth but also means lower transaction costs as well as lower prices and a greater range of choice for consumers. the digital economy and the transformation of traditional industry into digital are among the most promising growth sectors for the eu, and the only way we will be able to unify online and offline trade is if we have and implement eu competition rules. this is something we should aim to do as soon as possible.
i want to thank my colleague julie ward for her constructive work on this report. the terrorist attacks in paris last year showed how important it is to strengthen intercultural dialogue with third countries and to invest in inclusive education from an early age. to overcome the identity crisis that europe is currently experiencing and that feeds the nationalists in particular, we need to focus on developing appropriate education policies. the paris declaration of 17 march 2015 clearly demonstrated the political will of the european union ministers of education to work together to combat marginalisation, intolerance and racism. as we know, the economic, social and cultural exclusion of certain groups in society is one of the root causes of violence. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we counteract these processes by promoting cultural diversity and social inclusion. i am extremely proud of the erasmus+ programme because it has a key role to play in combating prejudice and intolerance among young people.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs for their contribution to this report. europe’s cultural, ethnic and religious diversity is rooted in the history of our continent, and it is significantly increasing in a transformative way. today, according to statistical data provided by eurostat, around 7% of the european union’s population was born outside the eu. this cultural diversity is the core of the european project and ‘unity in diversity’ is the motto of our union. lately we have witnessed intolerance, racism and discrimination threatening europe’s stability and development. this requires urgent action and there is no doubt that the most effective tool for tackling intolerance, racism and discrimination is education. actions to promote an intercultural approach in education are highly needed in order to support multiculturalism, integration, social inclusion and cohesion.
in writing. mr president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental principles and values on which a united europe is built are what make it a force of attraction for thousands of people around the world. europe as it is today is built on the foundations of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity, ethnic, linguistic and traditional diversity. but if europe is to continue to exist as an example of tolerance, justice and peaceful coexistence, we all, regardless of our origins and differences, owe each other mutual understanding and respect. education is crucial here. i believe that educating children in the understanding of cultural differences will be a much more long-term, effective and even economically viable measure than building walls between us.
whenever we talk about youth unemployment, we hear the same thing: young people should do this or young people should do that. the truth is, young people don't need any more advice. they need strong support and will. i believe the european union is too small for talented young entrepreneurs. this is why erasmus for entrepreneurs must work from a european level to a global one. erasmus for entrepreneurs must become a global programme. only then will those born in bulgaria, croatia or germany be able to compete with those born in america or russia, brazil or china. advertising for youth programmes should be in the language of young people and in the places where they are: on social networks, youtube, facebook or twitter, not on dusty job boards. i hear it all the time that we, my generation, are a lost generation. it's not true, and stop saying it, because young people are the backbone of our tomorrow, the backbone, not the tail.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. mr president president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion on the digital single market in the committee on legal affairs, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and my colleague from the ecr group, vicky ford, on the hard work they have put into this dossier. thanks to our concerted efforts to reach a targeted and balanced solution on the digital single market strategy, we have a report today that not only outlines key priorities such as online content portability and innovation, but also issues that need further analysis and discussion. as far as copyright is concerned, the european commission's proposal gives us a good basis and the right guidelines. however, there is still much work to be done to avoid over-regulation of issues that need ever deeper analysis. and we should not rush into things just to meet someone's expectations or someone's outside pressure. i believe that the outcome of today's vote will reflect that, and just as in the legal affairs committee, the report will enjoy great support.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and regulations. this is one of the most ambitious projects of the european union, but unfortunately the report has not fully lived up to that ambition. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the main objective of the new legislation should be to merge the offline and online markets. it is particularly important that consumers have the same rights and protection when they buy their goods online or in a physical store. unfortunately, this priority was not included in the commission's first legislative proposals. i think that increasing consumer trust in online services and online shopping will also increase trust in digitisation in general. this will allow europe to innovate and enforce systems and applications for e-governance, for the internet of things, for e-health. as meps, we have expressed our commitment to a digital europe and i think it is now up to national governments to promote trust in the member states. this trust is vital for economic growth, as well as for the imposition of a more competitive europe, a europe of the young, a europe of skills, a europe of creativity, a europe of digital technologies on global markets. i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and mrs callas and mrs henna virkkinen for the excellent work they have done.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations on this report were difficult, but i think we have reached a balanced text acceptable to most political groups. union policies and legislation in the field of the digital single market should aim at creating new opportunities for consumers and businesses and innovative cross-border online services at competitive prices. i believe that our work as legislators should contribute to removing barriers between member states and facilitating access for european smes to a single cross-border market. at present, only 1.7% of eu enterprises take full advantage of advanced digital technologies, and 14% of smes use the internet as a sales opportunity. that has to change because e-commerce is the future. it generates 500 billion euros a year in the eu. the commission's initiatives under the digital single market strategy need to be proposed and adopted swiftly. i believe that the proposals on content portability and online sales will help to remove the barriers for citizens who shop online and who will now be able to watch their favourite films, listen to their favourite songs while travelling. this is a first step in the right direction, but i believe that there is more to be done for a better functioning digital market.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the authors of the digital single market report and all those who worked on it and contributed to the strong and comprehensive position of the ep on this extremely important issue. over 315 million europeans use the internet every day, but more than half of the electronic market is based on us online services, and the rest are mainly national online services rather than cross-border pan-european ones. existing barriers to e-commerce need to be removed by stopping unjustified practices restricting eu consumers' access to e-goods and e-services between member states, ensuring an equivalent level of data protection and finding appropriate solutions to reduce the cost of cross-border parcel deliveries. one in three eu citizens would like to hear and see things from their own country when they are abroad. i therefore welcome the proposal to enhance the portability of online content as an important step towards improving consumer access to e-services, but one which must be followed by new models for online commerce and services. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of research and technological development, in particular in the framework of the european research area.
in writing. - i decided to abstain for several reasons. it is very important that we do everything we can to deal with the damage done to the marine environment. i would also like to remind you that we are talking about the easternmost regions of the atlantic ocean and the mediterranean sea. tuna and other organisms are also of great importance to the black sea region. because of ineffective regulation, a serious lack of foresight and impartial management, in addition to the continuous destruction of the marine environment through pollution. the depletion of natural resources due to overfishing requires us to impose stricter environmental protection rules and to propose measures to ensure sustainability, rather than increasing quotas on the advice of experts. furthermore, if we are not more careful and critical, we could find ourselves in a situation of economic and biological bankruptcy, which would create a dependence on imported goods.
in writing. - i did not support this report for several reasons. one of them is the fact that the report goes beyond its limits, strongly touching on taxation issues. by repeating a number of points from the taxe parliamentary committee report, he hints not only at the completion of the banking union but also at the allocation of eu resources from illegal state aid. it's impressive to name specific cases, like google. in my view, this infringes the independence of the competition dg when it comes to addressing individual cases, and the fact that this is outside the remit of this report. the annual report is hardly the place for such a strong wording and broad interpretation of the competences.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution, believing that competition policy could thus contribute to the objectives of the jobs and growth agenda. the report stresses that an effective and credible competition policy must not only aim at lowering consumer prices, but also take into account the strategic interests of the european economy: the ability to innovate; investment; competitiveness and sustainability; the special conditions of competition for smes and start-ups and micro-enterprises.
in writing. – the heart of the european economy has long been faith in the value of competition. it fosters a healthy environment for business in europe where companies can generate economic growth, create jobs, and invest in the future. competition is also good for consumers for the simple reason that it compels producers to offer better deals. moreover, putting the focus of the report on the digital economy shows how important it is for the future of the eu. the digital industries are among the most promising growth sectors for the eu. this is why it is so crucial that the implementation of eu competition rules in these markets is robust and effective, and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the member states of the european union represent a huge cultural and linguistic diversity which is our wealth and should be respected, but not forcibly uniformised. our peoples must preserve their identity and, through the european union, have the opportunity to exchange good practices, which can only help their development. signed the paris declaration of march 2015 is an important step in the fight against radicalisation. in this context, our report could have proposed actions to bring together member states in their efforts to strengthen the role of intercultural dialogue in preventing radicalisation, but unfortunately i do not think that this objective has been achieved. the idea of subsidiarity is not a new idea, but it is a new idea, and it is not a new idea. action is needed, but the proposed resolution certainly does not represent the message i want to send to my constituents. i voted against the proposal because of the facts i have just mentioned.
in writing. ‒ in the plenary, my colleagues and i overwhelmingly approved the resolution on the role of intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education in promoting the fundamental values of the european union. europe and the world are facing serious problems related to the flow of immigration. the great challenge ahead is to integrate immigrants and their children into our society, making the basic european values understandable to them. the new situation requires particular attention and efforts to uphold european values and culture, preserve peace and prevent conflicts. i believe that education and the linguistic diversity it brings are the foundation for this. an integrated approach is needed, involving cooperation not only between european countries but also with eu partners, including un agencies unesco and unicef. that's why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. – as elaborated in the report, the eu fundamental values of human dignity, liberty, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights are represented through intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education. aiming towards pluralistic, non-discriminatory, tolerant societies, the education policies of the member states have to be shaped in this way. as a founder of the education bulgaria 2030 project, i am a keen supporter and advocate for education policies that are adjusted to today’s reality, challenges and environment. that is why i voted in favour of the report
in writing. ‒ i think that the text of this report is quite neutral and, although it touches on sensitive topics such as the banking union and whether only euro area countries should participate, a balanced content has been achieved. that's why i supported the report. it raises issues that need further attention, such as the global competitiveness of eu legislation and the fact that the eu financial sector is a major challenge in the regulation of financial services.
in writing. – since the financial crisis that hit europe in 2007/2008, numerous legislative initiatives in the field of eu financial services have been initiated in order to restore financial stability, to strengthen customer protection and to implement the lessons learnt from the crisis. i fully support the report that looks at the impact of these challenges and the way forward towards a more efficient and effective eu framework for financial regulation and a capital markets union. i believe that the present legislation needs full implementation and strong enforcement in all member states.
in writing. ‒ in general, the idea of some external factors that could be a barrier for women entrepreneurs in europe could find support in me. however, i abstained in the final vote on this report because of the existence of a paragraph calling on the commission to introduce quotas for men and women in the process of financing them, which to me is not a solution to the problem.
in writing. ‒ mr president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite our efforts, gender inequality in the labour market continues to exist. it affects both pay and pension payments and the ability of women to take up managerial positions. one way to improve this picture is to encourage women to become entrepreneurs and even to become employers. this requires programmes to support, advise and facilitate access to finance for women wishing to start their own businesses. it is also important to provide sufficient and accessible childcare and care facilities for the elderly, given the special role of women in the family. last but not least, it is also necessary to facilitate access to education and training courses for company formation and management, which will give additional confidence to women in europe.
in writing. – entrepreneurship is well known as a catalyst for economic growth and competitiveness. as it stands, however, female entrepreneurs represent only a third of the self-employed in the eu, even though there are more women than men in europe. even if they contribute actively to social and economic development, their entrepreneurial potential is underused. as an mep who actively supports entrepreneurship policies in the eu, i take the chance to vote in favour of the report and support the strengthening of european female entrepreneurship.
mr president, i voted in favour of this extremely important report aiming to tackle one of the biggest challenges that europe faces: the unprecedentedly high rate of youth unemployment, which reaches 50% in some member states. our objective must be to equip individuals with the necessary transversal competences that support active and responsible citizenship in democratic and increasingly diverse societies, acknowledging that the labour market is changing far too fast and that forecasting precisely the skills the future needs is not really possible. students should be taught more broadly. we also have to support member states in enhancing their cooperation and exchanging good practices in the field of education and training, in particular in implementing work-based learning. young people must have the technical skills, entrepreneurial mind-set, language competences and confidence of course, but they need to adapt over the course of their lifetimes and achieve a sustainable school to work transition.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the policy to support skills acquisition with a view to combating youth unemployment. i believe that it proposes adequate and practical measures to help tackle this serious problem in practice. i represent a member state where the problem of youth unemployment is extremely serious. a large part of the young population is forced to leave the country due to the lack of sufficient options for implementation, which leads to a reduction in the potential of the state. i agree with the proposals made in the report and believe that, given the differences in labour markets in the member states, the exchange of good practice is a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the the european parliament adopted by a large majority a resolution on tackling the worryingly high levels of youth unemployment in the european union at today's plenary session. given the fact that almost five million young people are unemployed, with over two million unemployed jobs available, the measures adopted are aimed at training and adapting young people to the needs of the labour market. the problem of youth unemployment remains one of the main political priorities. if we are to be more effective in combating it, cooperation between representatives of business, educational institutions and organisations offering training and retraining courses must be a key factor. only in this way can we achieve a better match between the vocational training of young people and the needs of employers. other issues on which the proposal rightly focuses are the fight against such phenomena as grey sector employment, zero-hour contracts and unpaid traineeships. i therefore support putting the problem of high levels of youth unemployment on the agenda and call for greater commitment and adequate policies by member states.
in writing. i come from a country where youth unemployment rates are among the highest in europe. young people today face increasing difficulties in the transition from education to work and are often tempted to take on positions that do not correspond to their qualifications. i believe that to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, we need to invest in education and skills, in developing talents and creating opportunities for fulfillment in life. the development of basic skills and competences, such as information and communication technology (ict), mathematics, foreign languages and mobility, which enable young people to adapt quickly to changing labour market needs, should be promoted. last but not least, i would like to highlight the need for early career guidance to help learners make the right decision when choosing a profession. in conclusion, i would say that to find a lasting solution to youth unemployment, it is necessary for member states to ensure that investments in quality education and training and in the development of horizontal skills are prioritised.
in writing. ‒ i support the report's goals for more flexible education systems and the need for holistic education. member states are encouraged to participate in and promote the 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' programme among young people so that they can gain experience abroad and acquire new skills. the erasmus+ programmes, the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative are important tools in the development of education and training for unskilled and low-skilled young people. better funding is needed, as well as rapid implementation of these schemes, followed by appropriate monitoring in each member state; the report finds that labour mobility within the eu remains low and emphasises the importance of worker mobility in creating a competitive labour market.
in writing. – europe faces a number of serious challenges that are only to be overcome by an innovative, digitally savvy and entrepreneurial society; by people who, regardless of their profession or background, have the skills and curiosity to think in new ways. as one of the commission’s eskills ambassadors, i firmly support policies for education and skills enhancement as way to combat youth unemployment in europe. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it points in the right direction. with the rapid pace of digitalisation and the continuous emergence of new innovative technologies, we need to be ready to provide thoughtful and effective future applications and clear legislation that does not harm the creative industries and does not hinder innovation, and that does not create difficulties and negative consequences for consumers who should be enjoying the new digital revolution. regardless of the benefits, i reiterate once again the importance of maintaining our focus on improving the existing system and addressing key issues in a targeted manner based on in-depth analysis. by responding to calls for radical change, we will destroy the creative sector and inflict devastating harm on our citizens. in my country, we are seeing high levels of unemployment and economic losses, caused by intellectual property rights violations. the independent creative sector is also heavily dependent on the copyright system. if it didn't exist, there would be no independent film; the cultural heritage would disappear. recognising the importance of innovation, technological progress and the preservation of cultural heritage, we set the right framework for achieving this delicate balance.
in writing. ‒ in its resolution adopted today with 551 votes in favour, the european parliament has given its support to the european commission's digital single market strategy and made clear its intention to play an active role in its implementation. the roadmap of 16 initiatives to be implemented by the end of 2016 is now underway. digital technologies create enormous opportunities for sharing and business, but there is currently legal fragmentation and uncertainty. the digital single market is a horizontal policy, covering issues from consumer protection and unjustified geo-blocking, through cross-border parcel delivery and vat, to copyright, cybersecurity and privacy. the right framework to regulate these issues is therefore at european level. i believe that the main objective of the new legislation should be to provide consumers and businesses with better access to online goods and services, regardless of which eu member state they are in. i join the call for cross-border e-commerce rules. it is particularly important that consumers have the same rights and protection whether they shop online or in a physical store. i am convinced that the digital single market will lead to a significant boost in competitiveness, growth and jobs.
in writing. achieving a digital single market means first and foremost securing growth and jobs by finally removing borders between member states and providing businesses with access to the cross-border market. that is why i have supported this report, which i consider to be balanced and objective. in this day and age, the digital revolution is affecting every aspect of our lives. thanks to the internet, we have access to all kinds of digital content and it's an integral part of our daily lives. however, within the eu, around 45% of households still lack access to high-speed internet and in many rural areas there is no adequate digital infrastructure. in conclusion, i would like to note that the promotion of digital and media literacy should be a priority in educational institutions in order for everyone to benefit fully from the benefits of interconnected electronic services.
in writing. ‒ this report examines the actions to be taken to complete the digital single market and the impact on society and the economy as a whole. europe needs to use the great potential of the ict sector to digitise industry and maintain its global competitiveness. i support this report and believe that the digital revolution is affecting all aspects of our societies, which will bring new challenges and opportunities. it has the potential to empower citizens and entrepreneurs in a new way. private investment in high-speed and ultra-high-speed communication networks is a requirement for digital advances.
in writing. – creating a digital single market is europe’s priority and in order to achieve it, it is crucial to improve access to goods and services by eliminating unjustified practices of blocking geographically and unfair price discrimination on the basis of nationality or geographical location. increasing consumer confidence in online services and online stores will increase confidence in digitalisation as a whole. during my mandate as an mep, i am committed to supporting the implementation of the dsm. i am, therefore, in favour of the report.
i would like to thank you, mr juncker, for all the efforts the commission is making to resolve the migrant crisis. at the same time, i cannot fail to note one feature of all council decisions: the use of the future tense. and this is not just a grammatical quirk, but also a testament to the poor results that the council is achieving. do you realize, mr. tusk, that the loudest voice being heard in europe right now is for the closure of borders? even the idea of a new high security agency is not welcomed by some member states. moreover, mr president, the activities of this agency will only cover schengen europe and not all the external borders of the union. why?! we don't have an answer. information on the progress of cooperation with turkey is lacking, moreover the data indicate more than modest results. many unknowns hide the so-called voluntary resettlement of syrian citizens from turkey to europe. no one gives an explanation for this. the issues of readmission remain open.
in writing. i express my support for president andrzej duda and prime minister beata szydlo. i believe that the administration of 'law and justice' will contribute to poland's prosperity and well-being, as well as to the reform of the european union. commissioner oettinger wants to put poland under surveillance because of the new law on state media. once again, we are witnessing a double standard as the changes are aimed at depoliticizing the state media and making it more objective. are these not the values for which the eu is fighting? of course they are, but when they are proposed by conservative and nationally-responsible parties and at the expense of the status quo imposed by the euro-federalists, this is already unacceptable. i call on the commission not to interfere in the internal affairs of sovereign member states, and especially not on a political basis, apparently taking the side of the lost civic platform of the epp. all of us in the etuc group, and in particular law and justice, defend the ideas of the rule of law, democracy and economic prosperity. all this within our national states, not in a super-state as you of the epp and the social democrats want to create. our fight is to reform the union and return to the idea of a 'united europe of nations'!
in writing. europe is in crisis and is sinking deeper and deeper every day into a spiral of broken promises and the destruction of european solidarity. the inability, and in my view the lack of political will, to reach a common approach mobilises the ultimate voter while discouraging the supporters of a united europe. in this political vacuum and context, opportunities for undemocratic actions, such as those undertaken by the newly formed polish government, are opening up. it is unacceptable that the country that first started the transition in eastern europe should take such a step backwards in democratic norms by providing tools for political intervention in the media in the country. political purges and appointments in the judicial system, which must guarantee the protection of all civil rights and freedoms, are also unacceptable. but i strongly believe that the model for dealing with the next round of trampling on democratic values in europe, caused by centre-right parties, should be proposed by the eu. it's not the ordinary citizens we should be looking to for blame. the council must commit itself to finding a solution as soon as possible to the growing populism in europe. the world outside the eu reminds us every day that there is an alternative to peace. we cannot allow this alternative to become a daily reality for our citizens and destroy what has been built for generations.
in writing.– undoubtedly, the past few months have been crucial for iran and saudi arabia. on the one hand, the nuclear deal allows iran to return to the international scene. on the other, it is obvious that after the death of king abdullah, saudi arabia has taken a different path and the increasing numbers of death penalties prove that fact. the execution of the prominent shia cleric has completely shaken both the muslim world and the fragile political situation in the middle east. this has resulted in the rupture of diplomatic relations between iran and saudi arabia – two powerhouses, major rivals of the muslim world and important players in the conflicts in syria, iraq and yemen. this further instability in the region comes at a particularly sensitive moment – the growing influence of daesh and the worst refugee crisis of our time. therefore, the eu should play an active role in diplomatic efforts to de-escalate tensions between the two countries. the peace process in the middle east fully depends on good relations between both powers, and any deepening of the conflict could have incorrigible consequences.
madam president, the presumption of innocence is a fundamental element of criminal procedure in a democracy with a fair judicial system. we in europe have a unique opportunity to demonstrate to the world the direction of the development of criminal law and the procedural rights of the accused. i consider it a major achievement that the presumption of innocence will apply at all stages from the moment a person is suspected or accused of having committed a crime to the final determination of whether the person has committed the crime in question and the final confirmation of that determination. this will ensure the utmost fairness of the proceedings for the accused and their opportunity for adequate protection, which is the aim of this proposal. another major achievement of the directive is that it prohibits public authorities from ruling in advance on the guilt of a person without thereby impeding the work of the public prosecutor's office. only the court can determine guilt based on the evidence presented to it. last but not least, i welcome the fact that suspects should not be presented in a way that makes them look guilty. the way in which it is presented can greatly influence public sentiment, which is what the directive aims to avoid. at the same time, the restriction of the movement of suspects for security reasons or in case of threat to escape should not be prevented. i believe that minimum rules at european level on the presumption of innocence and the rights attached to this principle will contribute to ensuring the right to a fair trial, to strengthening mutual trust and to the effective application of the principle of mutual recognition.
in writing.– the internal market of the european union is an area of prosperity and freedom, giving 500 million europeans access to goods, services, jobs and business opportunities of 28 member states. while the construction of an internal market requires continuous efforts, the further deepening of the single market could yield significant gains for eu consumers and businesses if the remaining barriers are eliminated. the commission proposals for a regulations on appliances burning gaseous fuels, personal protective equipment (ppe), and cableway installations, update and align with the new legislative framework on the marketing of products. the ppe rules are now in need of updating to reflect the new developments in technology. i thus welcome the proposal, which lays down requirements for design and production of ppe to ensure the health and safety of users and the free movement of ppe in the eu market. apart from the harmonised approach, the new legislation does not imposing excessive burdens for businesses. this simplified and modernised legislation is needed especially for facilitating the inclusion of the small and medium enterprises in the market. a harmonised internal market will facilitate greater economic growth. with the three reports we are taking a step towards a more effective single market which will be both business and consumer friendly.
mr president, the netherlands is taking over the presidency of the european union at a historic moment for european integration. we are facing challenges whose overcoming will confirm or not the european union's ability to turn difficulties into opportunities and emerge stronger from the crisis. in this context, if the netherlands can be a mediator in reaching compromises, but has the courage to firmly defend our common european achievements, a decisive step forward will be made. in this context, there are four main points: in the area of migration, it is important to go beyond emergency measures. we're talking about the long term. it's good that the presidency is focusing on the relocation mechanism. but i'd like to hear more about the safe-country lists. the preservation of schengen and the admission of countries, such as bulgaria, which are successfully guarding their borders, should also be a priority. in the field of counter-terrorism, a major obstacle remains the reluctance of states to cooperate and exchange data. what will the presidency do to promote the exchange of information between national security services and european databases? it requires interoperability, but also mutual trust. the second issue relates to the role and the need for greater visibility of the european counter-terrorism coordinator. does the presidency intend to take steps in this direction? two more questions human trafficking. the commission's strategy is coming to an end; progress reports and the implementation of the directive in this area are still to be worked out. this issue must be clearly distinguished from, but treated on an equal footing with, the other equally terrible phenomenon of the fight against the smuggling of migrants. finally, mr prime minister, i cannot help but share with you my disappointment at the fact that your programme does not include the only legislative dossier on gender equality, namely the directive on women on company boards. i would like to believe that during your presidency we will not stray from the final positive solution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to vehicle registration data in latvia. latvia has completed the questionnaire on the protection of personal data and the questionnaire on the registration of vehicles. latvia has also conducted a successful pilot run with the netherlands. on the basis of the overall assessment, the council concluded on 8 october 2015 that latvia has fully implemented the general data protection provisions. i believe that these measures can help to fight terrorism and contribute to better cooperation between member states in the field of security. that's why i'm supporting the report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the presumption of innocence, which relates to the directive on the same subject, aims to define minimum standards to be applied, such as the right not to present the accused as 'guilty' before a final judgment, the principle that the prosecution must prove 'guilt', the right to be present at the trial, the right to refuse to give evidence, and so on. although i welcome the report, i voted 'abstention' because i do not agree with some aspects of it that were reached after the trilogues with the luxembourg presidency.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it represents an important step towards completing the existing european legal framework on the rights of defence of suspects, accused persons or persons subject to criminal proceedings within the european union. this proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council is of key importance because, at present, in many eu member states, the protection of the rights of suspects and accused persons is undermined and the principle of the presumption of innocence is violated. the presumption of innocence is a fundamental legal principle which makes it possible to avoid abuses in the course of criminal proceedings. the adoption of this report aims to strengthen the right of suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings throughout the european union to the presumption of innocence pending a final verdict of guilty and to guarantee the right of persons to be present at the trial against them.
in writing. – i believe it is every suspect’s or accused person’s right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty by a final judgment. europe needs a fair justice system guaranteeing fair trials everywhere in the european union and ensuring complete respect for the rights of the defence. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council regulation on personal protective equipment. this report relates to the updating of the legislation applicable to products in the field of personal protective equipment, corded lines and gas appliances in the 'new legislative framework'. under the new rules, the obligations imposed on manufacturers, importers and market surveillance authorities are largely standardised, which will reduce the administrative burden and improve legal certainty for all those involved in the production and control of products placed on the eu market. the report was prepared by my colleague vicky ford, and i congratulate her on a job well done. i think the report is consistent with the group's position and my own, namely that more rights should be given to the member states.
in writing. – ppe is equipment that protects users against health or safety risks at work and is used in a wide range of jobs and industries. the ppe rules, for example, are now in need of updating to reflect the new technologies development, without lowering the existing standards. i believe the safety of any european citizen should be maximised and that is why i support the personal protective equipment proposal for a regulation.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, in my country, there is a very common case of exploded gas cylinders, both for household purposes and those attached to otherwise petrol-powered cars. unfortunately, all of these cases have either led to death or have had lasting effects on the people who use these devices. that is one of the reasons why i support this report. the other is that it aims to standardise these devices, which will lead to a considerable reduction in administrative burdens and improve security of all kinds for eu citizens.
in writing. – the gas sector has an important role in the eu economy, as well as in my home country, bulgaria. the current eu stock of gas appliances is at around 470 million and growing, with more than 30 million units being sold annually. the proposal sets out essential requirements that appliances burning gaseous fuels must comply with in order to be made available on the eu market and i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ any decision we take that reduces the administrative burden and improves the security of eu citizens will always be supported by me, of course, if there are no ulterior motives. elevators are usually used when people are on vacation and want to enjoy their vacation in the mountains. that's why we need to keep them safe and let them enjoy the view around them, not worry about their safety. that is why i support this report, hoping that it is, if not a comprehensive solution to this security, at least a step towards it.
in writing. – cable installations have a strong market in europe. i am in favour of the report as it is necessary to have a high level of consumer protection with clear standard rules to apply in a unified manner across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to the delegated act on the gsp for kyrgyzstan, as i consider that the progress and development in the caucasian republic are not taken into account. on the contrary, i believe that it should remain part of the agreement on sustainable development and good governance, as it will have a positive impact on its future development and in particular on the implementation of international conventions, despite the difficult economic conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted no to the objection to the delegated act on specific composition and information requirements for processed cereal-based foods and baby foods, as i consider that the existing legislation on the subject of food composition is too heterogeneous and that work should be done to improve it. i don't deny the fact that sugar consumption is skyrocketing, and in the 21st century, we're facing a new problem: obesity. i voted 'no' not because i want to block the adoption of this delegated act, but because i believe that the commission should stick to its commitments.
in writing. - this peace process in colombia has already taken quite a long time and i think measures should already be taken to bring it to an end. i hope once the un starts monitoring it, it's over. i really hope that the victims are compensated, although it's unlikely that that will dull their pain. finding missing persons during the conflict is also a step in the right direction. i really doubt that the guerrillas and their leaders, who are responsible for so many murders, will get what they deserve, but i can hardly say who deserves punishment in a country that openly subsists on the distribution of cocaine. i hope, however, that the peace process in colombia will lead to a resolution and a cessation of hostilities. this will erase another point on the map where military action is taking place, and again with the help of the eu.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is a further sign of the european parliament's support for the peace process in colombia. the resolution stresses that this is a unique agreement which, for the first time in history, focuses on victims, ensuring justice without impunity and reparation for the damage suffered. the resolution also recalls that this is the first time that a subcommittee on gender has been set up to ensure that the gender dimension is integrated into the negotiations. finally, it is important to support this peace process, particularly in the context of the strengthening of our partnership, with the conclusion at this moment of a visa-free agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because the ongoing colombian peace process represents to us a historic opportunity to end one of the longest and bloodiest internal conflicts on the earth. colombia’s decades of civil conflict resulted in the death of more than 6 million people, the displacement of 220 000 people and the disappearance of 45 000 people. these numbers are not only shocking, but also are a warning. in fact, they remind us that we should not miss this opportunity to end violence, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, slavery, terrorism, massive violation of human rights and atrocities committed by both sides. therefore, the eu should have an active role in the negotiation process in order to guarantee that a final peace deal will be signed. because colombia’s problems are not only its responsibility, particularly since they have become regional and global ones.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in yemen is a triple emergency: humanitarian, security and political. first of all, the humanitarian situation in yemen, after less than a year of conflict, is almost worse than that in syria after five years. it's one of the worst humanitarian crises in the world today, according to the united nations. however, current political commitment does not reflect this. we must call on member states and the rest of the international community to contribute more to the revised humanitarian response plan. i would add that we must be careful that humanitarian aid is impartial with regard to civilians, victims of this civil war. on the security front, we know the threat is twofold. the vacuum left by a failed state and this civil war is already being exploited by al-qaeda and daesh. the real risk, as i have already said, is the extension and merging of several zones of instability and insecurity. yemen is like a link between the arabian peninsula and africa. let us anticipate this danger even more than the emergency humanitarian aid which the union has provided to somalia and djibouti. finally, on the political level, the european union has a role of its own to play. i have two points to make: firstly, we must support the efforts of the united nations to get the negotiations started, and do more to keep yemen on the agenda. on the other hand, in the medium and long term, we are investing even more in strengthening our political relations with the gulf countries and the arab league in order to build a partnership. otherwise, we would be proving that we have not learned the lessons of the conflicts that erupted in some of the countries of the "arab spring", which have multiple historical and geopolitical roots.
madam president, there's a civil war in southeast turkey. that's the word. this war has been going on for decades, and now it's been intensified by the neo-sunni government of erdogan and davutoglu. at the same time, this government is waging illegal warfare and illegally occupying territory in syria and iraq, and has continued to occupy greek cyprus for decades. at the same time, this same government continues to commit ethnic cleansing and genocide in the kurdish territories, wherever there are kurds in syria and iraq. those are the exact words, and i'm surprised that there are colleagues in this room who pretend not to understand and not to know. meanwhile, the european union has committed political suicide by falling for erdogan's racket, promising billions to continue this war. i say that this is suicide, and i say that the behavior of the government in ankara towards the kurds is genocide, ethnic cleansing, and it must be stopped, as well as the negotiations with this country, which has no place in the european union because it is not european and because it continues to do such things.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we must acknowledge the progress made by all parties and welcome the desire of georgia, moldova and ukraine to be closely associated with the european union. the implementation of the agreements has undoubtedly had a positive impact on trade, stimulating reforms and economic growth. of course, the european union must not stop there. the eastern partnership policy has proven to be not a geopolitical threat to third countries but a long-term strategy for the stability, prosperity and democracy of the european continent. that is why it is necessary to continue to support all three countries. complete the visa liberalisation with georgia and ukraine. let us pay closer attention and seek a diplomatic solution to the frozen conflicts in the eastern partnership countries. last but not least, we will continue to monitor the respect for democratic principles, which will guarantee further reforms by georgia, moldova and ukraine.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, my group welcomes the stabilisation and association agreement between kosovo and the european union. i welcome and congratulate mrs. lunacek on the preparation. kosovo is in an extremely difficult situation institutions and independent regulators are highly politicized, the judicial system is not functioning properly, there is no progress in the fight against organised crime and corruption, and the economic environment and high unemployment are driving people to flee the country. integration is vital for kosovo because the country needs help in building its statehood and institutions, and kosovars need jobs, business development, economic growth and an improvement in their standard of living. i hope that the agreement will stabilize the country and help establish ethnic peace in the country. there is no other region in europe, like the balkan peninsula, where ethnic understanding has so much influence on the very existence of states. in order to avoid ethnic tensions and conflicts, we should not close our eyes to the violations of the rights of ethnic communities, both in kosovo and in the other countries of the region and the pre-accession package. i am talking about the bulgarians in macedonia, the bulgarians and the goran in kosovo, the croats in serbia and many other national communities, the bulgarians in serbia too, who were left outside their countries after the devastating wars at the end of the last century.
mr. chairman, this is the second time you've disrespected my colleague and interrupted him during an important speech. i insist you apologize to him and i will inform the presidency of this tendentious policy you are pursuing towards my colleague.
mr president, the genocide against christians, yazidis and other minorities by the 'islamic state' in syria and northern iraq has led to the displacement of hundreds of thousands during the so-called 'islam-imposing campaigns'. meanwhile, in iraq, the christian population has declined sixfold since 2003 to 275,000, and in syria since 2011 to less than two-thirds, to 500,000, due to repression and killings. the responsibility and responsibility for the terrible situation that is not only the syrian government, but also the international community, which in the security council failed to reach an agreement for a timely intervention in the country. this could also limit the mass desire to move to european borders from the affected regions. mrs. mogherini, in order to deal successfully with terrorism, the migrant crisis, radical islam, first the member states must fulfill their commitments that they do not fulfill, especially the financial ones. secondly, european cooperation in the field of security and defence must be strengthened by the creation of a european intelligence and defence structure. it's in the interest of the people there, but it's also in our interest to stop the barbarians.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, there is no doubt and no doubt that the islamic state is killing tens of thousands of yazidis, christians, kurds and members of the shia minority in northern iraq and syria. we all know that, and it's been said many times in this room for at least a year. but all the statements in this room in this one year have come to nothing. i want to share with you the following reasoning: the islamic state is not fighting with declarations, it's not fighting with debates, it's not fighting with a lot of rhetoric, but at the expense of that empty talk. don't fight by circumventing the problem. it doesn't fight when we try to avoid the word "islamic", explaining how one religion was peaceful and another wasn't. it doesn't fight when we try to cover up the fact that our neighboring country, turkey, is aiding isis, funding it, organizing it, treating it, supplying it with weapons. all of these things have to be said, be clear, because otherwise we're not going to get any of what we're talking about. what needs to happen, dear mrs. mogerini, is to reach an agreement with the entire international community for a ground operation.
mr. chairman, mrs. mogherini, terror is among us because there is no one to stop it at the border, not because we don't have a common army. instead of a single army, someone must guard the borders of europe. europe is facing the greatest threat to peace since the european union came into being. the criminal methods of the daesh zombies threaten every member state of the european union. european governments are forced to wage a real war, one that requires enormous financial resources. as a representative of the republic of bulgaria, which is an external border of the european union with turkey and the economically weakest country in europe, i insist that my country be given equal opportunities for defence with those of its western european partners. the european union should not duplicate nato. because my homeland is a springboard for hybrid warfare between two former empires, like russia and turkey. instead of a single european army, the european union is obliged to pay for and secure its eastern border, by financially supporting bulgaria. we can't rely on turkey and islam to protect us from them.
mr president, mrs mogherini, the citizens of europe want us to take swift and effective action, because the danger is here, with us. each member country must help in solidarity with what it can, and in the current crisis together with the united states, the arab countries, iran and under the auspices of the un and the vienna process that has begun, we must ensure a working solution for the peaceful future of syria and iraq, where the migrants who are now on the territory of the european union can return. mrs mogherini, let us use the activation of article 42 (7) by france as a catalyst and lay the foundations for a strong and sustainable european defence capability, including a european intelligence service, a european army and an external border guard, so that we can meet the many external and internal threats to the european union. as a first step in this direction, a permanent european civil-military headquarters should be established at strategic and operational level to coordinate both the implementation of contingency plans and current and future article 42 (7) and article 42 (2) activation operations, of course in close coordination and cooperation with nato structures and in no way duplicating or complementing those structures. finally, successful tackling of issues such as migration, counter-terrorism and radical islam requires the implementation of commitments. it is a shame when leaders in brussels make decisions and then, when they return to their capitals, fail to implement them, especially when it comes to financial commitments.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, i will not prolong much longer our stay in this hemicycle. i would just like to thank you all, especially those who stuck to the actual topic of our debate, which has shown a joint commitment of all groups to our work on human rights. as many of you have said, this is not only a clear principle and value of the european union, this is also our mission to protect and promote – neither one of these by itself is enough – to protect and promote human rights both inside and outside the union. let me say that, in this work, the support and also the guidance of the european parliament is crucial. we try to do all that we can to use our external action instruments together, jointly, to fulfil this mandate, to be a relevant player on human rights, with some concrete results on the ground. sometimes this is evident, sometimes this is less evident. in most cases this happens and in most cases around all our human rights priorities, whether it is concrete single cases of human rights defenders, or whether it is the big issues around which we mobilise our work, such as abolition of the death penalty or economic and social rights – the list is long – in all these cases either it is the european union making the difference, with the european parliament, with the member states, with all our tools, or the situation is more difficult. so we know we have not only some values, some principles, but i would say also some interests, because defending and promoting human rights around the world is also responding to a direct interest in stability and security worldwide, because there is no possibility of a stable environment if there is no respect for human rights. this is something that, again, is not only a value and a principle, but also a clear responsibility that we have – inside our borders and outside them. i would like to thank this parliament for the continued support it gives to our action in this respect, and also let me personally thank the eu special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, who knows this hemicycle very well, for the excellent work that he is doing to support this mission that we are all together taking forward.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, on this occasion, ten weeks after the paris terrorist attacks, i would like to be able to say that most probably we will never again witness such a heinous attack in europe. unfortunately, i am not convinced that this is true. on the contrary, judging from recent events, the terrorist threat seems to be increasing in the european union, but also in its vicinity and further afield, as the recent attacks in istanbul, jakarta, ouagadougou and charsadda in pakistan have shown. as the presidency, we will do everything within our powers to improve the union’s capacity to counter this threat and to protect our citizens. in this context, counter—terrorism will be a key topic at the informal meeting of the justice and home affairs ministers next week in amsterdam. the presidency also attaches great importance to the rule of law and to getting the balance right in this respect in the fight against terrorism. obstacles to the exchange of information on foreign terrorist fighters and the way forward to clear these obstacles will be first and foremost on the agenda. another issue that we will address is information sharing between member states on firearms and explosive precursors. implementation of the measures agreed is key, as indicated in the eu internal security strategy 2015-2020. the heads of state and government statement on counter-terrorism of 12 february 2015, after the charlie hebdo attacks, remains the framework the european union needs to implement urgently, as called for by the european council. you can be assured that the presidency will spare no effort to promote rapid progress in its implementation. progress has been made over the past months and was set out in a public report by the european union counter—terrorism coordinator in late november. information sharing and operational cooperation are top priorities identified by the council. progress has been made. the agreement on the european union pnr directive will support police and intelligence agencies in tracking down possible terrorists and criminals by accessing travel details of passengers. on 1 january, europol launched the european counter—terrorism centre (ectc). this is a more robust platform through which member states can increase information sharing and operational coordination. this includes the monitoring and investigation of foreign terrorist fighters, as well as the trafficking of illegal firearms and terrorist financing. in november 2015 member states committed to seconding counter-terrorism (ct) experts to the ectc to form an enhanced cross-border investigation support unit. europol is actively engaged in supporting ongoing ct investigations in several member states. the progress of contributions to the various eu databases is being monitored and discussed in the council. outside the european union context, cooperation and information sharing among security services will be stepped up in the context of the counter terrorist group (ctg), and the commission will soon present its proposal on updating the european criminal records information system for the systematic sharing of criminal records data for people connected to terrorism. furthermore, we have started discussing the proposal to amend to framework decision on combating terrorism. on 2 december 2015, the commission presented a draft directive with a view to collectively implementing un security council resolution 2178 and the additional protocol to the council of europe convention. negotiations on this directive are already under way and we hope to be in a position to achieve an agreement in june this year. apart from enhancing the exchange of law enforcement information, countering radicalisation and recruitment remains a priority. an eu approach is needed, taking into account that over 5 000 citizens have left to fight for terrorist organisations in iraq and syria. concerning integration and non-discrimination, we should create opportunities for all. we should do much more on tolerance and anti-muslim hatred, further inter-religious dialogue and communicate our values. education is key and we look forward to commission initiatives in this context. but prevention alone is not enough. the return of well—trained radicalised individuals poses a genuine security threat. at european union level, the main tool we have for sharing best practices is the radicalisation awareness network. this network has made impressive strides in recent months, facilitating the flow of best practice and expertise between member states. we can also begin to share expertise with third countries. the immediate focus here will be the middle east, the north africa region and turkey. it is a fact that the internet is one of the primary channels for radicalisation, publishing and proliferating illegal content. the establishment of an internet referral unit within europol’s counter—terrorism centre has improved our ability to obtain the removal of terrorist threats. on 3 december 2015 the eu internet forum was launched. the objective is to identify and remove terrorist content and to develop effective counter-narratives. in this context, cooperation with the providers is obviously important. the discussion of the commission’s proposal for an eu action plan against illicit trafficking in and use of firearms and explosives has begun. the presidency aims to reach a general approach on this new proposal. finally, i would like to mention the border police package, which is also important in the context of the fight against terrorism, as we have to strengthen controls at the eu’s external borders. border security is not a top priority under our presidency. on this issue one should of course be careful about mixing migration and terrorism. we cannot turn our eyes away from the threat, but let us not forget that the vast majority of migrants are fleeing situations of conflict and even fleeing from terrorism themselves. the close cooperation with key partners, such as the united states, is continuing. furthermore, we will continue to strengthen our counter-terrorism engagement with partners in north africa, the middle east, turkey and the western balkans. let me conclude by saying that i think we all share the same objectives. among other things, this was demonstrated by your resolution of february last year on anti-terrorism and the reports adopted by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs at the end of last year. we look forward to a fruitful cooperation.
member of the commission.– mr president, as you all know, 2015 has been a turning point in europe’s experience of terrorism. terror has claimed the lives of 150 innocent people – too many lives lost, and too many lives scarred. we have to be realistic: the terrorist threat in the european union is high. the terrorist threat is there. we are determined to respond with resolve and resilience, and at the same time to uphold our values of tolerance, democracy and respect for fundamental rights. from day one of this commission, we stressed that combating terrorism was a common european responsibility. our european agenda on security has been on the table, as you know, since last april. we have drastically accelerated its delivery with the political agreement on the eu pnr, the proposal for a directive on terrorism, the november firearms package, the action plan on firearms trafficking, the europol regulation adopted in december, the reinforced ran centre of excellence to counter radicalisation, the launch of the eu internet forum to counter harmful content online and, just this week, the proposal to exchange the criminal records of non-eu nationals. these are all tangible measures to strengthen our security across borders, and more is coming. 2016 will be the year when we go after terrorist money. we need to deprive terrorists of their financial resources. in early february, we will put our ideas forward with a concrete timetable. our borders package of last december is also a critical piece of the puzzle, because it will allow the systematic security checks of all people leaving and entering the eu. it is clear that we need to improve the management of our external borders in order to enhance internal security and safeguard schengen. i want to be clear, once again, on a related point: refugees, who are crossing our borders because they need international protection, and who are entitled to international protection, are not terrorists. i want to reaffirm that we will never equate refugees with terrorists. we cannot, and we must not, allow fear to prevail. let me finally turn to information sharing: this is a sensitive, but as you will understand, a very crucial issue. as you know, it is one of the central pillars of our security agenda. the eu tools are there to facilitate the exchange of information between national law enforcement authorities. the schengen information system, europol’s databases and the prüm framework should be used to the maximum by the member states. member states need to trust each other more: they need to share more information, between themselves and also with europol. law enforcement authorities across member states, including specialised law enforcement agencies, all work for the same purpose: the security of our citizens. we need to understand that, collectively, we are all safer. the threats we face are common. our approaches to the threats need to be common too. this is not a competition. we reinforce each other if we cooperate. information is already being exchanged at various levels – but we need more of it, not less. next week, we will officially launch the european counter terrorism centre at europol. it has been operational since 1 january 2016. the centre can become the hub of our counter-terrorism operations if we make the best use of it, and if member states share information. this centre can only succeed in its mission if we all help it to succeed. the support provided by europol to french and belgian investigators after the paris attacks is the best example of the role that the european counter terrorism centre could play: cross-checking data, facilitating information-sharing and providing analytical and operational assistance to the national services on the ground. one year ago, following the charlie hebdo attacks, we stressed that our response would not be dictated by fear or driven by hasty conclusions. the commission proposed several concrete actions which are part of a comprehensive approach, and in this collective effort we have made progress. but recent events remind us that we still need to do much more. now is the time to act and to strengthen our cooperation. let us make 2016 a turning point for europe to tackle terrorism decisively, head-on, in all its aspects.
on behalf of the ecr group. ladies and gentlemen, without a doubt, the terrorist threat is perhaps the greatest challenge facing member states today. the islamic state and other terrorist organisations have long been underestimated, as have the processes of self-isolation and radicalisation among young muslims in many european ghettos following the failure of theories of integration and multiculturalism. some european leaders, however, continue to pursue reckless policies towards countries that openly fund, organize and treat terrorist organizations, such as turkey, saudi arabia and qatar. it is time for this hypocrisy, this policy of wide-eyedness to be ended. the countries that finance terrorism, that treat and train terrorists, should not be paid a ransom, as the european union did with turkey, but should be stopped in the accession negotiations and sanctions should be imposed. those who host it, like saudi arabia, should be subject to trade sanctions, not to hypocritical trade. it's time to stop talking nonsense, especially after paris and cologne, if we don't want this to become our daily routine. it's a matter of civilized and value-based choice.
a question asked by raising a blue card. how would you comment on the media reports that german police officers, german security officers have been ordered by political lines to cover up crimes because of the origin of their perpetrators? i'm talking about the events of new year's eve.
in writing. ‒ as the shadow rapporteur on the kosovo reports, i welcome and support the conclusion of a stabilisation and association agreement between kosovo and the european union. this agreement is a first step towards the country's european integration and sets out the conditions for participation in european policies and financial instruments. but the right to use european funds is conditional on the country implementing key reforms in the areas of statecraft, the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime. the country is in a difficult institutional situation and that is why it needs guidance and help in building its statehood, and kosovars need jobs and a rise in living standards to stop leaving their country. in addition to access to european funds, the agreement provides for further visa liberalisation, which will take place when kosovo has fulfilled all the conditions set by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ the proposed stabilisation and association agreement (saa) with kosovo is the last saa to be concluded with western balkan countries. therefore, it could be scrutinised as an important step towards the europeanisation of the whole western balkans. in kosovo’s case, the saa with the eu will facilitate economic growth and investment promotion. this economic development will be more than welcomed since the country of 1.8 million suffers from an unemployment rate of 40 % and kosovo’s youth flee in search of jobs and opportunities (just bear in mind that kosovo is the fourth biggest source of asylum seekers in the world). last but not least, the saa with the eu will promote political stability which is very much needed in terms of finding a solution to kosovo’s status. a solution that will guarantee peace and long-term stability in europe.
in writing. ‒ the association agreement/deep and comprehensive free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine require the parties to implement comprehensive political and economic reforms, in return for preferential access to the union's internal market and improved conditions for cooperation. the resolution in question examines the progress made by these three countries over the past year. the undisputed champion among them is georgia, which will soon get visa liberalisation. but many other democratic issues remain unresolved, such as the independence of the judiciary, freedom of the media and the repression of opposition. moldova is in a severe political crisis that threatens the process of european integration and the implementation of reforms. ukraine is also trying to reform its system and cope with organised crime, corruption and a difficult economic environment. i supported the european parliament's resolution because i believe it comprehensively presents the problems of these countries and provides key recommendations for their reform and european integration process.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it emphasises the importance of the union's commitment to the eastern partnership countries. in the resolution, we welcome the progress made by ukraine, moldova and georgia and recall that the implementation of the deep and comprehensive association and free trade agreements must remain a priority for the union and these three countries. we welcome the financial and technical assistance provided by the union, while stressing that the financial support of the union must be conditional on concrete reforms, in particular in the areas of justice and the rule of law. finally, it is important to place these agreements within the wider framework of strengthening our partnership, which must cover both political dialogue and priority areas ranging from employment to energy, security, conflict prevention and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the common defence clause (article 42 (7) teu) because i believe that security and defence should remain entirely within the competence of the member states and that no further powers in this area should be conferred at eu level. separately, france has no reason to use this article and to ask for a greater engagement of the union in the war in syria, since the eu is not a security and defence organisation but a political and economic union. cooperation in the fight against is and terrorism should be done through nato, which is the most appropriate organisation and to which all member states belong. last but not least, there is concern that the use of article 42 (7) of the french constitution may be used to justify the many breaches of european law in areas such as public procurement, security, the free movement of goods and people, public debt and others.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it stresses that the use of the mutual defence clause is a sign of the unanimous support of all the member states for france and is, in this sense, a sign of european solidarity, which is the foundation of the union. in the resolution, we deplore the intergovernmental nature of this clause and recall the 'facilitating' role of the european institutions, which can ensure a collective and effective response when this clause is invoked. we ask the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to propose guidelines on the practical arrangements for this clause, in order to avoid ad hoc management and cooperation in the future. finally, we stress the catalytic role of this first activation, which can serve to lay the foundations for a genuine european defence union.
in writing. ‒ by invoking article 42(7) teu instead of article 222 tfeu (the so-called ‘solidarity clause’), france chose an intra—government approach rather than an institutional one. in this regard, we can conclude that the activation of article 42(7) represents an important test for member states since they are obliged to provide ‘aid and assistance by all means in their power’ to support france. there is no doubt that the best way to pass this test for member states is to take their commitments under article 42(7) teu seriously. this refers to the point that member states should be well prepared not only to provide immediate support (whether it is political, military of financial) but also to bear the cost of such support. moreover, to achieve better application in future applications of article 42(7), member states should use the full potential of the european institutions, especially the eeas and the commission. moreover, this will facilitate cohesion between the eu institutions and member states, which will hopefully result in further integration.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's joint resolution on eu priorities for the 2016 sessions of the un human rights council sets out the eu's position at the upcoming meeting of the un human rights council in march in geneva. the resolution is comprehensive and addresses thematic issues such as the death penalty, freedom of religion, social and economic rights, and the human rights situation in a number of countries such as saudi arabia, burundi, syria and others. the group of european conservatives and reformists has always placed a high priority on human rights in all eu policies and relations with third countries. however, our group did not join the joint resolution, as it focuses on lgbti rights, which we cannot support, as we promote the preservation of family and christian values. that is why i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because in a decade the un human rights council has established itself as a platform that identifies and proposes responses to today's human rights challenges. it also serves as a major reference point for human rights research, education, public information, and advocacy activities within the un system. in this perspective, it should not surprise us that a prominent champion of human rights like the eu, which promotes and protects human rights both within the union and beyond its borders, provides comprehensive political and financial support in this direction. it is from the position of a leading political and financial supporter of human rights that the eu must continue to raise and express its concern on the international stage about human rights violations. including some of the council members. i believe it is absolutely essential that basic criteria for membership of the un human rights council be introduced. the parties should be chosen from among those that uphold a high level of human rights. only then can it be ensured that the council exercises its mandate in an effective and impartial manner and is not subjective or dependent.
in writing. ‒ the committee on petitions is the committee closest to european citizens of all the committees in the european parliament. there, everyone has a vote and can submit a complaint or recommendation. there are many subjects that could be discussed in this report and i am more interested in what are the main things that affect the citizen, what is the percentage of citizens who have filed petitions by nationality, are there statistics on this. what i found, however, is that the report concentrates more on expressing an opinion on whether or not it is right for some member states to be given the opportunity to choose whether or not to be part of something and that, note, the principle of subsidiarity is too strictly interpreted by the commission. i cannot agree with such views, so i rejected this report.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, many citizens are unaware of their right to petition the european parliament. the petition is a very effective way of drawing the attention of the european institutions to personal cases involving problems in the application of european standards. on the other hand, the percentage of inadmissible petitions (39,4%) shows that there is uncertainty about the limits of the union's competence. the right to petition should therefore be clearly explained and widely promoted. i welcome the active civil position and the fact that specific problems in the application of eu law are being raised. for the european parliament, petitions are also a valuable source of feedback on the gaps in the legislation that we as meps draft and vote on.
in writing. – petitions provide a way for european citizens to be more effectively involved in the democratic process at eu level. i support the report, which calls on the commission to respond to requests for investigation in three months and to keep the petitions committee informed of developments in infringement proceedings directly linked to petitions.
mr president, i would like to get back to an issue i raised when discussing the previous ecb report, and that is the availability of bank lending to businesses. unfortunately, the situation is still unsatisfactory, despite the measures that have been taken lately. european businesses are largely dependent on bank lending and alternative financial sources are quite insufficient to meet the necessary demand. i do still welcome the measures taken by the ecb to address this problem. these include negative interest rates and targeted long-term refinancing operations. i am also happy to see from the early evidence in this year’s report that parallel policy initiatives were relatively effective, especially when it comes to reducing financial stability risk and giving banks funding. however, while the targeted long-term refinancing operation helped stem the decrease in bank loans, the programme did not provide a stimulus to generate loan growth as intended. a total of eur 400 billion has been introduced into the banking system through five refinancing operations, but bank corporate lending has only experienced a very moderate growth. as the ecb annual report 2014 points out, credit conditions for firms remain tight, especially in some euro area countries. we can see that ecb monetary policies were transmitted only imperfectly to borrowing costs. bank lending is still insufficient at times, and therefore i do ask the commission to take more decisive measures to stimulate bank lending to corporations and, especially, to smes.
the rapporteur. i would like to thank in particular the shadow rapporteurs, as well as the partners from the luxembourg presidency and the commission, for the particularly constructive approach and contributions that made the drafting of this draft decision possible. undeclared work, in its increasingly diverse forms, today deprives those employed of their basic social and labour rights, often putting them in conditions of de facto exploitation, leads to serious market distortions, forcing compliant firms to overcome extremely unfair competition from employers using such work, and deprives tax and social security systems of revenue and payments due. it is to these disadvantaged communities and institutions that we owe the present platform and its early and effective implementation. the need to create this platform is all the more urgent in view of the escalating threats not only to labour mobility but also to one of the four indivisible fundamental freedoms - that of the free movement of people - and to the very existence of the union. and i would like to share the view that it was precisely this sense of urgency, which was increasingly shared by both my fellow parliamentarians and the luxembourg presidency and the commission, that became the driving force behind the achievement of constructive agreement on the final draft resolution presented to parliament today. the compromise thus reached commits all member states to be responsible members of the platform. the platform is intended to enhance the capacity of member states to act on the multiple painful problems posed by undeclared work through enhanced cooperation at union level between relevant national authorities, together with the social partners and with the participation as observers of a wide range of interested agencies and organisations. accordingly, the mission of the platform was defined to prevent, limit and counter undeclared work and to promote the conversion of such work into declared work. the proposed platform, in line with the principle of subsidiarity, will not have the power to establish rules and standards. instead, it is intended to offer the necessary basis for the responsible consideration of information, experience and solutions as a basis for shared conclusions aimed at effectively addressing the challenges of undeclared work. the activities within the scope of the platform shall include a wide range of specific actions in pursuit of its mission. it is up to the individual member states to make use, as appropriate, of the conclusions resulting from such action, and to the institutions of the european union to take account of those of theirs falling within the responsibilities of the union. true, there were doubts is the platform necessary at all, will it not affect the freedom of action of the member states, in fact, is there really room for added value at union level for action to tackle undeclared work? rest assured that the full range of such doubts and reservations were addressed in the most detailed and comprehensive manner possible during the consultations, which allowed a broadly shared consensus to be reached and thus to agree on a mutually acceptable and therefore workable draft solution. as a result, the question ultimately comes down to this: are we truly committed to joining forces in a common cause against the gross injustices of undeclared work, or will the objectors find themselves in a position of benefiting all those who exploit this hired labour and consequently reap profits as a result of extremely unfair competition, while depriving budgets of revenue and payments due. that is, do we seek to enforce the law, or in the predominant cases do we let freedom be governed by the so-called "law of the jungle"? an obvious choice, on which parliament cannot possibly be divided.
madam president, strengthening cooperation at european level to prevent and deter undeclared work is of paramount importance not only for the european economy and its public finances, but also for citizens themselves. undeclared work and undeclared work seriously undermine people's ability to enjoy the social benefits that should be available by default. these include accumulation of insurance and pension years, use of leave for holidays, sickness or maternity leave, and additional pay for overtime work. very often, workers in europe are put in a bind and forced to accept such arrangements. high unemployment rates are further contributing to this. we must therefore welcome measures to tackle this phenomenon and encourage cooperation between member states and between national authorities at central and regional level.
member of the commission. today you will approve the decision to step up the fight against undeclared work and tomorrow, as a colleague has already stressed, you will also vote on the package to combat tax evasion which you will be discussing shortly. those two files reinforce each other. both initiatives are intended to make it clear that europe is a space, that europe is a community based on values and where social justice has its place. both dossiers, including this platform to combat undeclared work, will ensure that there is a better level playing field for the business community - the smes are certainly dying for it - that everyone pays their fair share, both to the social security authorities and to the tax authorities, and that undeclared work is combated and preferably converted into regular work, into quality jobs, which is better for everyone. the platform shall involve all relevant authorities, including the social partners. it is good that they have a voice, because they know the reality of the ground better than anyone else. the platform provides a structure, but not a constraint, for cross-border cooperation to be effective. the platform shall not replace the inspections carried out by member states. nor does it take away powers from the member states. it does, however, ensure that the possibilities available to the member states are complemented. it will encourage the member states - that is the point - to make their inspections more effective and, why not, to draw inspiration from each other's best practices for their policies. working together will win everyone, and i'm not the only one convinced of that. i've heard that you share that opinion. you can be sure that the commission will do everything in its power to give the necessary support to this platform and that, as agreed, we will inform and report to the european parliament at the appropriate time and on a regular basis. the mobility package is not directly the subject of this debate, but several questions have been raised. well, as regards the mobility package, i hope, along with many of you, that we will soon have the political conditions in which we can launch this optimally, because that mobility package also serves the level playing field and social justice, of course, in addition to facilitating the labour mobility that we continue to need in the internal market. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again, as well as all the negotiators who have worked in the trialogue, and i look forward with you to the results.
rapporteur.– madam president, i believe that the debate this morning has served a very important purpose. as the commissioner began her initial intervention this morning, she highlighted the particular severity of the complex problem of undeclared work and the corresponding need for clear talking and for very definite and unequivocal conclusions, and she stated further intentions for action. i would like to highlight what i believe has been the underlying conclusion: that the various direct impacts of undeclared work on workers, tax and social security systems, and unfair competition, finally come back down to a threat to the very fabric of society in each of the member states and throughout the european union. if i am not mistaken, yesterday evening president draghi began his intervention by pointing out that, at present, the european union is faced with increasing infringements relating to social cohesion – economic, territorial and social cohesion. it is not by chance, i believe, that he began with that point, because whatever efforts for job creation, investment and fiscal responsibility we want to implement, if the basic fabric of the society in which we are trying to implement such measures is being destroyed, then they are hopelessly forsaken. therefore i believe, as has been pointed out, that this platform has seemingly built an acceptable balance between the concerns for individual member states’ rights and the need for union input so that the problem is better tackled. i see that the time is over. i can only second the intention which was mentioned. we hope the platform is put into action before the summer. we very much support the statement by commissioner thyssen, and we support bringing this debate again and again back to this chamber, to the committees of parliament, since clearly we need much more discussion, sharing and vigorous action.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the codified text of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a union code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders. the new regulation will replace the various acts incorporated in it. it preserves the content of the acts codified in their entirety and limits itself to consolidating them, making only the formal amendments necessary for the codification itself. i voted 'abstention' because it concerns the codification of legislation, but overall i believe that some of the texts infringe the sovereignty of the member states and bring the eu closer to a centralised federal state.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it supports the amendment of the union code on the rules governing the crossing of borders by persons. the reform of the schengen borders code should allow for mandatory and systematic checks at the eu's external borders on all persons entering the schengen area, including european nationals. it is important, however, that this reform be accompanied by better information sharing between the member states and real-time feeding into european databases.
in writing. ‒ mr president, the schengen area is one of the most tangible achievements of the european project. we see that the limitations on its functioning lead to delays in transport, to enormous losses for the european economy. they have negative consequences for the overall state of the european single market, the monetary union, the value of the euro. europe must therefore do everything it can to protect it, in particular by strengthening the union's external borders. it is also extremely unfair that countries like bulgaria and romania, which are charged with protecting the 3 349 km of the union's external borders, should be kept out of schengen despite meeting the criteria for admission.
in writing. – free movement within the schengen area is one of the most important freedoms of the european union. national borders undermine one of the main achievements of the eu – the internal market. initial estimates indicate that the economic loss from reinstating some national borders is equivalent to the imposition of a 3% tax in the eu. the only solution is strengthening the security of external borders and the commission proposal to establish a european border and coast guard. actions need to be undertaken within the shortest delay possible and i welcome the report on the proposal for a regulation on the rules governing the schengen borders code.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mrs la via, because heavy metal vapour has a very negative impact on the environment. the 1998 protocol outlines the best available techniques for reducing harmful emissions. the aim of this protocol is to reduce and control anthropogenic emissions to air that can lead to high levels of cadmium and mercury and cause respiratory and cardiac problems and diseases. the ratification of this protocol represents a step forward in the fight against pollution.
in writing. – long-range transport of air pollution has been recognized as an important factor affecting ecosystems and the human population. the heavy metals cadmium, lead and mercury are common air pollutants, being emitted mainly as a result of various industrial activities. the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. i therefore welcome the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, research shows that air pollutants can travel several thousand kilometres before they settle. therefore, problems must be solved at the international level. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, which entered into force in 1983, was the first international legally binding instrument in this field. to date, the convention has been extended by eight protocols setting out specific measures to reduce emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur and nitrogen oxides, volatile and persistent organic compounds, heavy metals, combat acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone, introduce national ceilings and reduce emissions for various substances below 1990 levels. in december 2009, the protocol was amended to update the obligations of the parties and to reflect best available techniques. decisions to amend shall be subject to ratification by the parties. the amendments to the protocol are largely covered by eu legislation and will be further transposed by a new directive setting updated national ceilings for emissions of certain air pollutants. the ratification of the amendments will be an important step towards achieving a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. that is why i voted to give parliament its approval.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mrs la via on the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution. the 1998 protocol outlines the best available techniques for reducing harmful emissions. its purpose is to control or eliminate emissions or losses of persistent organic pollutants. the ratification of this protocol represents a step forward in the fight against pollution.
in writing. – the objective of the protocol on persistent organic pollutants to the convention is to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emission and losses of persistent organic pollutants (pops). it is recognised that pops resist degradation under natural conditions and are associated with adverse effects on human health and the environment. the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention is an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. that is why i welcome the recommendation on the draft council decision on the acceptance of the amendments.
in writing. ‒ in a world where transnational crime is becoming a daily reality, i cannot help but support this report. any agreement that is motivated by a desire to combat serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism, will always meet with my approval. especially when it comes to countries where there are bulgarians, such as ukraine.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in order to support the cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine, which will strengthen and intensify judicial cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. while the work of eurojust is based mainly on coordination between the different member states and the other european institutions, the scope and scale of current threats make international cooperation with our partners, including ukraine, more essential than ever. this agreement includes provisions on the exchange of information, including the exchange of personal data, and on the secondment of liaison officers and magistrates to the agency, for a more coordinated response. finally, this agreement is part of the broader strengthening of our partnership with ukraine and remains an additional means of supporting that country on the path of reform.
in writing. – the agreement on ukraine-eurojust cooperation is aimed at developing partnership in the judicial area, especially in fighting organised crime and terrorism. i firmly believe that tackling these issues is essential for building a stronger european community. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ montenegro is one of the countries in europe that, for one reason or another, is perhaps closest to accession to the union. each document signed between it and the union is therefore a further step towards that goal. it's good that montenegro will sign this treaty, because it has been repeatedly accused of having its citizens join the islamic state. their signature of this treaty will allow europe to fight even more strongly against the spread of radical islamism within its borders. these are the reasons why i support this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report in order to support the cooperation agreement between europol and montenegro, which will strengthen and intensify judicial cooperation in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. while the work of eurojust is based mainly on coordination between the different member states and the other european institutions, the scope and scale of current threats make international cooperation with our partners, including montenegro, more essential than ever. this agreement includes provisions on the exchange of information, including the exchange of personal data, and on the secondment of liaison officers and magistrates to the agency, for a more coordinated response. finally, this agreement is part of a broader reinforcement of our partnership with montenegro, which has been a candidate country since 2010, and is an additional means of supporting that country in its reforms to stay on the path to membership.
in writing. – the eurojust cooperation agreement with montenegro is a very important step to more effectively tackle issues such as organised crime and terrorism in montenegro and across the eu. i welcome this agreement which will deliver better cooperation and coordination between the eu member states and montenegro in the field of justice and law enforcement when dealing with cross-border crime and help make europe safer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, although i have some reservations, because i believe that facilitating the exchange of best practice and information is important. however, i would like to express my concerns when it comes to the flexibility that member states should have when participating in the proposed platform. i support mandatory participation in the platform itself, but i am against any proposals that member states should be obliged to participate in the activities. this should remain on a voluntary basis, taking into account that not all member states are fit and able to participate on a lasting basis. more important than undermining obligations is voluntary participation, which will stimulate a higher quality and positive engagement.
in writing. ‒ in a resolution adopted today with 619 votes in favour, the european parliament gave its support to the creation of a european platform to strengthen cooperation on preventing and deterring undeclared work. estimates indicate that undeclared work causes enormous damage to the union economy by depriving tax and social security systems of revenue and payments due. as a result of undeclared work, there is a grey area of unfair competition that leaves workers without rights and protection. the purpose of the platform is to extend measures to counter undeclared work through enhanced cooperation. the proposed platform is in line with the principle of subsidiarity and does not affect the competence of member states to establish national rules. the measures envisaged include: improving the technical capacity of the member states, exchanging good practices and raising public awareness. i am convinced that the new european platform will improve cooperation between public authorities to combat undeclared work.
in writing. – undeclared work lead to countries missing out on taxes and social security contributions and to distortions in the labour market as it gives people who do not declare their services and goods an unfair advantage. far from being a minor issue, undeclared work amounted to 18.4 % of the eu’s gdp in 2012. i believe the european platform will improve cooperation and technical capacity between member states’ enforcement authorities to prevent and deter undeclared work and increase public awareness. hence, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ it is clear that we always set ourselves higher goals than we are actually capable of achieving. i hope that this is also the case in this important aspect, namely the conservation of biodiversity. unfortunately, the eu is once again one of the leaders in this direction worldwide. that's why we have to show the rest of the world a good example of how things should be done. i support this report, even though progress on the targets is slow, and i am aware that this is largely due to local governments, but we must use the levers that the union gives us to get them to implement the measures that have been set.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it represents the european parliament's assessment of the mid-term review of the biodiversity strategy presented by the commission at the end of 2015 and is of strategic importance for the achievement of the eu's biodiversity objectives. i support its guidelines on using best practice as a catalyst for change. the successes achieved so far, while not outstripping the overall negative trend, show that the legislation in place is working. in this context, the report makes recommendations for its better implementation and integration into other policy areas in order to make progress. the development of a european pollinators initiative, which will take into account the resistance of plants to pests affecting bees and other pollinators, is crucial. in addition, i welcome the multilateral approach that has been put in place, involving all stakeholders. investments in biodiversity are socially and economically necessary and bring high added value. the adoption of the report underlines the central place of biodiversity in a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe.
in writing. – the overall trend in biodiversity loss is alarming and urgent political measures need to be undertaken in order for the 2020 targets to be attained. of the total number of species assessed in bulgaria, around 6 % are considered threatened and at least 7 % are near—threatened at the european level. many of these species are endemic to europe and are found nowhere else in the world. that is why i vote in favour of the report.
mr president, some people are saying 'another debate on schengen, on refugees ...' yes, because today one of the foundations of the european union, namely the area of freedom, security and justice without internal borders, is being put to the test. it is our historic responsibility to protect it and to prove the resilience of european values even in times of crisis. and when we talk about european values, very quickly there is a place for action, not just words. i will put two emphases: first, the schengen. it is clear to all of us that the schengen is at stake. it is very important to keep talking about its preservation, not forgetting what the consequences will be in economic terms, the consequences for european integration. ensuring the security of the european union's external borders is a condition for its preservation, and we will therefore not tire of repeating it: fulfilled commitments by the member states to close the loopholes in border management and to comply with registration, relocation and return procedures. and here i would very much like the good examples of countries like bulgaria to be cited more often. the positive results achieved in the fight against smuggling and trafficking of human beings and border protection demonstrate bulgaria's readiness to be a reliable member of the schengen area. the coordinated approach, cooperation with third parties. but let's not forget focus on the short term and keep the long term in mind!
mr president, commissioners, both the european asylum system and the 1951 geneva convention relating to the status of refugees require that asylum seekers who cross the border illegally must report immediately to the authorities. unfortunately, refugees often hide, take detours and risk their lives because they know that registration and the granting of refugee status must be done in the first country of arrival, which they would like to avoid, given the burden on the reception systems of those countries. at the same time, border officials in frontline countries are entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring security and controlling the flow of crossers. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by member states on the situation of asylum seekers in the union, in particular by examining the impact of the measures taken on the situation of asylum seekers in the union. it seems that dublin's admission rules and relocation system are not adequate to reality. i fear that until we establish a uniform reception system based on a centralised and fair distribution of asylum applications, incidents will continue to happen.
madam president, we have to answer a question today: does the eu want to manage the migration crisis or deal only with the consequences? if the answer is "management", we're not doing well. the ancient legend of sisyphus and the stone continues to be the emblem of this policy. we have not solved any of the problems of people fleeing war and death, we have not stopped economic migrants, we have not reassured our own citizens. instead of solidary solutions, there are separatist alliances of member states without adequate reaction from the council, new walls and fences and attempts to destroy schengen. the crisis has put europe in an emergency situation, requiring emergency measures for an extremely short time. strengthening security services and border authorities is necessary, in strict compliance with human rights and international treaties. that is what our citizens want, but the commission is delaying the adoption of the border guard regulation. he's applying a double standard, why he's excluding bulgaria, romania and croatia from the new agency's scope. there are attempts to create buffer zones between schengen europe and the transit countries. dublin has to change, but the first country clause is not removed. how is a permanent relocation mechanism going to work if the temporary one hasn't been activated yet? what's the recapitulation from la valletta and the western balkans? and one more thing. commissioner, the balkans is a complex region conflicts are born there quickly and never cease, let us not play with fire! isolating greece is unjust. is it her fault that the deal with turkey isn't working? this is a european problem, not a greek one. it is high time that the council in february made a full review of all policies so far and came up with a programme with concrete actions and deadlines.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the ppe, s&d, alde, gue, this debate is absolutely unambiguous proof of the complete failure of the policy that you, your commission and your governments have been pursuing in recent years with regard to illegal immigration, the insane policy of bribes for turkey despite its support for the islamic state and salafist terrorism. everything we at ecr warned you about has happened. for four hours, your leaders have been theatrically and, excuse me, hypocritically trying to justify the resounding failure of so-called integration, of misguided multiculturalism, of illegal immigrant quotas and other failed follies. the shocking hypocrisy, the violence in cologne and other european cities, the millions of illegal immigrants, the attacks committed by them all over europe, the chaos at europe's borders, the thousands of missing children, the victims of all kinds of exploitation, are all your responsibility and your fault and this cannot be denied. stop the hypocrisy and the excuses, admit your guilt and defeat, spare the empty talk!
i'm european, but first and foremost bulgarian. in this view, the european union is doomed, and schengen is completely dead a burst bubble. new berlin walls are dividing europe. europe at several speeds has turned poor europeans into ghettos. mrs. merkel invited the refugees to provide cheap labor for the german economy. european leaders are helpless they cannot make basic decisions. we're making too many concessions to the erdogan regime, which is trading oil with isis. i do not support giving 3 billion euros to turkey to protect our common borders. turning poor european countries like bulgaria and greece into buffer zones is a senseless crime against european citizens. you blackmail the poor for crumbs. let germany pay for these 3 billion and europe support bulgaria to protect the european border. these 3 billion should go to the bulgarian and greek border police, not to turkey.
madam president, it is high time to give a clear vision of the direction of the development of eu migration policy whether to maintain the open door policy for all or to reduce the permeability and guarantee the security of european citizens without going against international law. i have repeatedly called for increased control and security at europe's external borders - something my country, bulgaria, has been doing for a long time. shared responsibility for their protection will lead to more trust between member states and ensure the preservation of one of the european union's greatest achievements - freedom of movement. it is therefore crucial that the new european border guard has a mandate to guard not only the schengen borders but also all the external borders of the eu. however, ensuring the security of european citizens requires public and political support for the actions of european border guards. unfortunately, the bulgarian border police, who perform the difficult task of guarding the highly populated terrain on the border with turkey, are often criticized by foreign ngos. i consider this unacceptable, especially given that the repeated checks on compliance with european legislation and the effective work of the border police have refuted these allegations. last but not least, i would like to draw attention to the need for cooperation with the eu's neighbouring countries, especially those that host the largest number of refugees or are on the migration path to europe. the establishment of a productive partnership with them will inevitably lead to a more effective fight against trafficking in human beings and a reduction in the flow of migration.
in writing. for the first time in the plenary, we are discussing the refugee emergency. today, this is happening in the context of the european commission's communication of 27 january, which states that passport checks at borders can be introduced for a period of two years. all eyes are now on greece following allegations of mismanagement of its external border. but it is far from the only country to suffer from refugee pressure. bulgaria, where i come from, is also an external border of the european union. i am advocating that controls at the eu's external borders should be strengthened. emergency situations require emergency measures. but to call into question the schengen area is unthinkable to me. the free movement of people is one of the fundamental principles of a united europe. the closure of borders, as nationalists are demanding, will not be a magic wand to solve the refugee crisis. we need a single european policy, but one that is not permanently blocked in the council.
in writing. calls to close schengen borders for 2 years show that the eu, led by the right and led by the far right, is in a total dead end. this would be a huge blow to the idea of a united europe - not just because of the inevitable economic damage, but because free movement is the most vivid symbol of all the eu's achievements. the suggestion that we lock ourselves in our homes, bar the door and wait for the storm to pass is a dangerous illusion - no country can cope with such problems alone. our response is more, not less europe where it is needed. instead of walls, we need effective external borders. more europe in the field of security, information exchange, the fight against terrorism, foreign policy. a stronger european commitment, including financial, to support un agencies as well as the countries that host the most refugees. despite fulfilling all the criteria for membership, bulgaria and romania remain unfairly outside the schengen area, which would greatly contribute to security and strengthen the union's external borders. we are firmly opposed to any idea of creating 'buffer zones' within the eu that turn into large refugee camps. the dublin mechanism does not meet the new conditions and needs to be urgently revised.
mr president, mr minister, mr president, we are still waiting for a european council to take stock of the situation and to give us some prospects. on the question of migration, i have two observations. first, the shortcomings in the operation of reception and registration centres need to be addressed: three are currently operational and the other eight need to be set up more quickly. secondly, as regards readmission agreements and their effective implementation, negotiations must be relaunched where they have been stalled for years, and implementation of agreements where they exist must be verified and sanctioned. as regards the talks with the united kingdom, i welcome the desire to move quickly towards an agreement. this is important in order to avoid creating further misunderstanding among some of the european citizens about this situation. i would like to draw your attention to a number of points. firstly, on the question of strengthening the principle of subsidiarity, can we really go further by giving national parliaments a power of veto without at the same time strengthening the role of the european parliament? secondly, in this process with the united kingdom, a member state is officially allowed to strip away one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union. how can we not open pandora's box and encourage other member states to question other of our founding principles in the years to come? my deepest concern is that we should not go in the direction of a dynamic which is completely opposed to that of the lisbon treaty. i wish you every success in these negotiations and hope that as a result of this agreement, cohesion and consensus will be safeguarded in the union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the application of the tariff preferences under the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part. the agreement establishes a preferential trade regime a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). in 2014, following the entry into force of the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement, imports into the union from moldova increased by 20%, while imports of agricultural goods increased particularly significantly, by 30%. agricultural products represent a significant share of the total imports from moldova to the union. the main exports of the union to moldova are spirits, food products and cigarettes. the reason to support the proposal is that a safeguard measure is required when, as a result of the reduction or elimination of the duty on a product originating in the republic of moldova, imports of that product into the union are made in such increased quantities as absolute value or in comparison with the union production that they cause or threaten to cause 'serious injury' to the union industry.
in writing. statistics show that in 2014, following the entry into force of the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement, imports into the union from moldova increased by 20%, while imports of agricultural goods increased significantly, by 30%. agricultural products represent a major share of the total imports from moldova to the union. the products of moldovan agriculture, which is a traditional livelihood, are also known for their good quality in the regions of the republic inhabited by ethnic bulgarians and citizens with a bulgarian identity. for these reasons, i supported the present proposal on the application of a safeguard clause in the framework of the association agreement between moldova and the eu. i also believe that such mechanisms provide protection both for european producers in the event of abuse of the preferential arrangements and for local producers. by a similar mechanism, they are also protected in the event of artificially created competition through regulated imports from third countries. i support the policy of good trade relations between the european union and its immediate neighbours, but i also believe that this must be done without jeopardising the livelihoods of european farmers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the anti-circumvention mechanism providing for the temporary suspension of the tariff preferences under the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the proposed regulation is not binding on the union and that the union is not bound by the provisions of the eu-georgia association agreement. the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary in order to comply with georgia's obligations under the non-circumvention provisions of the agreement, in order to protect eu producers where necessary.
in writing. the european union is georgia's largest trading partner, with 27% of the caucasian republic's trade with the eu. on the other hand, trade with georgia accounts for 0.1% of eu trade. the association agreement between the european union and georgia was signed in may 2014 and entered into force provisionally on 1 september 2014. it contains a clause providing for the temporary suspension of the application of tariff preferences to georgian imports into the european union of goods listed in 'annex ii-c (e) ' to the agreement, in the event that imports of those goods and products reach excessive levels that are disproportionate to the current production capacities of georgian agriculture. given that, according to the statistics, georgian imports do not threaten european farmers and producers, including those in my country bulgaria, even in these difficult times for a number of sectors, i have today given my support to the european commission's proposal. by taking this step, europe is showing solidarity and supporting the development of its neighbours and partners. this is a basis for stability and a model that should be applied to all neighbours, because stability in our neighbourhood is a prerequisite for the prosperity of all europeans.
in writing. ‒ i join the many complaints lodged with the european parliament's committee on petitions condemning the fact that the council and the european parliament have still not been able to ratify the marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works for blind, visually impaired or otherwise print-disabled people. seven other european union countries have not yet ratified the treaty. i take every opportunity to emphasize this fact, arguing that it is necessary to ratify this treaty quickly for the benefit of all european citizens. access to published material is important to blind people and is part of their rights in our society. that is why i supported this resolution and i believe that swift action is needed.
in writing. ‒ the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities recognises the right to education (article 24) and the right to participate in cultural life (article 30) without discrimination and on the basis of equal opportunities. at the same time, only 5% of all books published in developed countries and less than 1% in developing countries are in accessible reading formats, with over 26 million visually impaired people in europe alone. the marrakesh treaty establishing an international legal framework guaranteeing the application of limitations or exceptions to copyright for the benefit of persons who are blind was signed on 27 june 2013. its signing raised doubts that the issue of blindness was being used to weaken copyright protection overall, which negatively affected the ratification process. my colleagues in the european parliament and i adopted a resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty as soon as possible. seven eu member states are in the blocking minority and are obstructing the ratification process. i join the european parliament in calling for laws protecting intellectual property rights not to serve as an unjustified barrier to access to cultural materials by people with visual impairments.
in writing. ‒ i and the party i represent imro are against any genetically modified food and feed. in a draft decision, the commission announced the authorisation of the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean fg72 (mst-fgø72-2). gmos are not the solution to what we eat or what we feed the animals we consume, and that is why i am against them at all times and everywhere. i'm more concerned with the health of our citizens than trade and competitiveness. recently (october 2015) i rejected the ec's proposal that each country can decide for itself whether to allow or ban gmos. to some extent, the offer was very attractive, but in practice unworkable, due to the eu single market. i have always been in favour of a total ban on gmos on the entire european market so that our citizens know that their governments put their health first and i believe that this is the only policy we can pursue on this issue. in this case, i voted for the objection, which would lead to a ban on the placing on the market of gmo soybeans.
in writing. i supported the resolution of the committee on the environment and public health to withdraw the draft european commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from mst-fgø72-2 soybean. scientific information suggests that this soybean contributes to the expression of the protein 2mepsps, which confers resistance to the herbicide glyphosate, and the protein hppd w336, which confers resistance to isoxaphlutole-based herbicides. the international agency for research on cancer classifies glyphosate as possibly carcinogenic to humans. i believe that even this alone is an argument sufficient to reject such a proposal. in addition to the scientific justification, a large part of public opinion expresses increasingly strong disapproval of the use of gm techniques and technologies. this became clear on the eve of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership negotiations. i think it's socially irresponsible in the name of public health to allow such a culture on the territory of the eu or any member state.
in writing. ‒ i and the party i represent imro are against any genetically modified food and feed. in a draft decision, the commission announced that it would authorise the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean the following entry is inserted after the entry for the species mon-8770: gmos are not the solution to what we eat or what we feed the animals we consume, and that is why i am against them at all times and everywhere. i'm more concerned with the health of our citizens than trade and competitiveness. recently (october 2015) i rejected the ec's proposal that each country can decide for itself whether to allow or ban gmos. to some extent, the offer was very attractive, but in practice unworkable due to the eu single market. i have always been in favour of a total ban on gmos on the entire european market so that our citizens know that their governments put their health first and i believe that this is the only policy we can pursue on this issue. in this case, i voted for the objection, which would lead to a ban on the placing on the market of gmo soybeans.
in writing. i supported the resolution of the committee on the environment and public health to withdraw the draft european commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from soybean the following entry is inserted after the entry for norway: scientific information shows that this soybean contributes to the expression of the dmo proteins, which confer resistance to dicamba-based herbicides, and the cp4 epsps protein, which confer resistance to glyphosate-based herbicides. the international agency for research on cancer classifies glyphosate as possibly carcinogenic to humans. i believe that even this alone is an argument sufficient to reject such a proposal. in addition to the scientific justification, a large part of public opinion expresses increasingly strong disapproval of the use of gm techniques and technologies. this became clear on the eve of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership negotiations. i think it's socially irresponsible in the name of public health to allow such a culture on the territory of the eu or any member state.
ppe), in written form. ‒ in today's vote i supported the objection to allowing the import of three genetically modified soybeans for food and feed use. these soybeans are engineered to be resistant to spraying with the herbicide glyphosate and combinations with other herbicides. on the other hand, in 2015, the international agency for research on cancer (a specialized agency of the who) already classified glyphosate as possibly carcinogenic to humans. the european food safety authority has not carried out the necessary risk assessment of that herbicide and the effects of its combination with other herbicides. the european parliament has voted to reject the three gmos, albeit by a small majority, for the third time in a row, in a show of consistent disagreement with the eu's gmo authorisation procedures. despite the fact that the adopted objections are not binding on the commission, the consistent position of the ep requires that the pan-european gmo approval system be reconsidered and that no new gmos should be authorised until this is done. i therefore call for a revision of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 so that authorisations for gmos are adopted by means of delegated acts rather than implementing acts, thus enabling parliament to exercise more effective democratic control.
in writing. ‒ i and the party i represent imro are against any genetically modified food and feed. in a draft decision, the commission announced that it would authorise the placing on the market of products containing genetically modified soybean the following entry is inserted after the entry for the species mon-8770: gmos are not the solution to what we eat or what we feed the animals we consume, and that is why i am against them at all times and everywhere. i'm more concerned with the health of our citizens than trade and competitiveness. recently (october 2015) i rejected the ec's proposal that each country can decide for itself whether to allow or ban gmos. to some extent, the offer was very attractive, but in practice unworkable due to the eu single market. i have always been in favour of a total ban on gmos on the entire european market so that our citizens know that their governments put their health first and i believe that this is the only policy we can pursue on this issue. in this case, i voted for the objection, which would lead to a ban on the placing on the market of gmo soybeans.
in writing. ‒ at today's plenary session, i supported all three objections to the european commission's plans to allow the placing on the market of three types of genetically modified soybeans. the issue of gmos has always divided votes in the european parliament not on a party basis but on the basis of a national position in principle 'for' or 'against' the cultivation and placing on the market of genetically modified organisms. bulgaria has a consistent conservative and restrictive national policy on these issues and has sought to prioritise the development of organic farming in the country. that is why i did not follow the epp line and voted for the objections proposed by the parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in foodstuffs, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) in foodstuffs.
in writing. i supported the resolution of the committee on the environment and public health to withdraw the draft european commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market of foods, food ingredients and feed containing, consisting of, or produced from soybean the following entry is inserted after the entry for norway: scientific information shows that this soybean has reduced expression of the δ12 fatty acid desaturase (fad2) and palmitoyl [acyl-transfer protein] thioesterase (fatb) enzymes, resulting in an elevated oleic acid profile and a reduced linoleic acid profile, and expresses the cp4 epsps protein, which confers resistance to glyphosate-based herbicides. the international agency for research on cancer classifies glyphosate as possibly carcinogenic to humans. i believe that even this alone is an argument sufficient to reject such a proposal. in addition to the scientific justification, a large part of public opinion expresses increasingly strong disapproval of the use of gm techniques and technologies. this became clear on the eve of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership negotiations. i think it's socially irresponsible in the name of public health to allow such a culture on the territory of the eu or any member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection under rule 106 on emissions from light passenger and goods vehicles. the reason for this is that i think it would slow down the process of reducing emissions. i believe it's our responsibility to reduce the damage we do to the environment as technology advances.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the objection to the resolution calling on the commission to withdraw the draft regulation and to submit a new one by 1 april 2016 in order to introduce a genuine driving emissions test for all vehicles. i do not support the objection, as that would leave the eu without any new rules. the proposed report provides an effective way to significantly reduce air pollution from diesel cars in the short term.
ppe), in written form. ‒ i voted to reject the objection to new tests for real-life emissions from passenger cars, which, if adopted, would have delayed the decision to reduce car emissions by several years, given the volkswagen diesel car scandal. now we have a clear commitment from the commission to review the requirements with a specific timeframe to reduce the maximum emission limit values to approved levels. the commission also further committed itself to a legislative proposal for a long-term solution to renew the vehicle approval regime. i welcome the responsible decision reached at the plenary to continue the procedure for assessing emissions under real conditions and to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides, which are currently four to five times the official limits. today's vote paves the way for the introduction of the vehicle emission quantification test package approved by the technical committee for met, under real-world conditions, to be introduced in two stages: first, reducing the emission gap to a 'conformity factor' of 2,1 (110%) for new models from september 2017 (and for new cars from september 2019); second, achieving a conformity factor of 1,5 (50%) from 2020 for all new models (and by 2021 for all new cars).
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report because it not only calls on the commission to look more actively at ways of improving market access for eu companies and professionals, but also calls on the commission to ensure that no further barriers to trade based on nationality are allowed. it is crucial that the commission does not miss key priorities, but ensures that eu businesses and professionals are not left behind by potential opportunities, such as trade deals. we need to increase consumer access to markets such as public procurement, telecommunications, transport, financial and professional services, and ensure that our highly qualified professionals can work outside the eu without undue obstacles. moreover, when it comes to legislation or the management of the movement of people in general, this is a matter for the member states and this report also explicitly calls for this. i also support the fact that, as the report makes clear, eu public services will not be part of the negotiations, and that eu data protection rules will not be affected, especially given the important trade negotiations and internal market issues.
in writing. ‒ on 3 february, the european parliament adopted by a majority of 532 votes recommendations to the european commission on the negotiations for the trade in services agreement (tisa). the parties to this agreement account for 70% of world trade in services, with the eu negotiating on behalf of its 28 member states. the agreement should facilitate european companies' access to foreign markets and create new growth opportunities in areas such as financial, digital and transport services. i think it is extremely important to seek reciprocity when opening up markets. the easing of regulations for smes will undoubtedly also be of great benefit. the european parliament plays a crucial role in eu trade policy, with the final say on the ratification of agreements. the european commission is therefore obliged to keep meps informed of the progress of the negotiations. in the recommendations adopted, we also highlighted our red lines, namely personal data protection, cultural services, labour law, education and health.
in writing. ‒ the tisa trade agreement seeks to strengthen international rules and increase the openness of markets in digital, financial and transport services, among others. tisa represents an opportunity for the eu to consolidate its position as the largest exporter of services. the tisa negotiations should ensure greater reciprocity in market access, create a global level playing field and deliver tangible benefits to consumers. tisa is an opportunity to ensure competition under the rules and i support this report.
in writing. – services are increasingly important in the global economy and a central part of the economy of every eu country. the eu is the world’s largest exporter of services with tens of millions of jobs throughout europe in the services sector. moreover, opening up markets for services will mean more growth and jobs. the tisa agreement aims at liberalising the worldwide trade of services such as banking, health care and transport. that is why i vote in favour of the report containing the european parliament’s recommendations to the commission on the negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i have decided not to support this proposal because, although i support the principle of equality between all citizens, i do not agree that the eu should be counterproductive and start creating legislation on issues for which instruments exist. it is clear that the five key areas of action remain unchanged and have been adopted in the eu work programme for 2016. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom and the united states on the application of the principle of proportionality. the adoption of a new resolution on the same subject, with existing agreements and work programmes not yet fully completed, is not in line with the concept of 'clear and effective legislation'.
alde), in writing. ‒ mr president, we must admit that the implementation of gender equality policy in all other policies is progressing very slowly in the european union as a whole. the efforts of ngos in this direction also face a number of difficulties. the 2015 council conclusions on equality between women and men in decision-making and development cooperation, reached after consultation between member states, acknowledge that the empowerment of women and girls must be accompanied by adequate financial means to achieve the desired objectives. the outstanding equality issues would be more easily overcome and policy more stimulated by a dedicated gender equality programme at eu level. i believe that the new gender equality strategy by 2020 should include a european programme that will ensure that all its beneficiaries are able to deliver on their commitments.
in writing. – i supported the resolution because we should completely condemn violence against women and all kinds of gender inequality. it is totally unacceptable in the 21st century that gender stereotypes and discrimination exist in our societies in one form or another. we should call on the eu and the member states as soon as possible to sign and ratify the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. the ratification of the istanbul convention will provide foundations for the launch of a new strategy to fight gender inequality in our societies. in this regard, it is vital to note that the new strategy should aim to make society more aware of the problem of violence against women through awareness campaigns and facilitate prevention measures such as access to justice, support for victims, etc. last but not least, we should call on the commission to encourage cooperation between member states, women’s rights organizations and the social partners in order to successfully develop and implement a new strategy for gender equality and women’s rights in a post-2015 world.
ppe) madam president, serbia's european integration guarantees peace and economic prosperity not only for serbian citizens but for the entire region. but this process necessarily involves overcoming the communist and nationalist practices of all the countries that divided the region in the past but have relapses in the present. fate has determined different ethnic groups - serbs, bulgarians, hungarians, croats and others - to live in the same place. our goal today is not just to live next door to each other, but to live together in good neighborliness. nationalism has never led to anything good for the people. in the presence of the serbian minister for european affairs, i would like to call on the authorities in belgrade to grant the will of the citizens of tsarebrod and return the historical name of the city instead of the current divisive name of the communist dictator dimitrov. i also call for the long-standing saga of translating and publishing textbooks in national minority languages to be finally brought to a close, so that young citizens of different ethnicities can study subjects in their mother tongue. these steps in the right direction will prove that serbia is changing and taking its rightful place among the family of european nations. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
ecr), a question asked by raising a blue card. dear colleague kovachev i agree with you regarding the name of the ship. of course, it should be returned. but i would like to ask you, do you not think that the serbian state should first of all guarantee all the rights and legitimate interests of the bulgarian national minority, recognized by the peace treaties, and stop harassing the representatives of this minority, for example the case of ivan nikolov, the case of dimitar dimitrov, and guarantee the rights of the bulgarian community in serbia? that would be a condition for integration, wouldn't it?
ppe), answering a question asked by raising a blue card. mr jambacki, it is true that serbia has perhaps one of the best legislation on national minorities, but the question of the application or the practice of this legislation is under great criticism. in many places in the past, these practices were abused in local government, courts, prosecutors and police, and people from national minorities had problems. what you said is right. the bulgarian national minority in bosilegrad and tsaribrod have repeatedly experienced bad or negative treatment by the serbian authorities.
on behalf of the ecr group. dear madam president, commissioner, ms lunacek, colleagues, i thank my colleague lunacek for her work on the resolution and for her overall contribution to kosovo's rapprochement with the eu. i also thank my fellow shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in drafting the final text of the resolution. i am certainly satisfied with the text; it touches on many of the country's problems and makes constructive criticisms and recommendations. the issue of ethnic minorities is also discussed and we call on kosovo to make greater efforts to protect and guarantee the rights of all national minorities, including the goran or bulgarian minorities, especially in the area of prizren, as became clear during our meetings and talks with the kosovo delegation. i would like to draw attention to one call, however, with which i do not entirely agree, namely the liberalization of the visa regime with kosovo. both i and my group in the ecr are of the opinion that visa liberalisation should not and should not be prematurely liberalised before the country has fulfilled all its obligations. let's not forget that the so-called "balkan battalion" of the islamic state is actually made up mostly of fighters from kosovo, and then from bosnia and herzegovina. it is not the commission, but kosovo in particular, that must speed up its work in this respect, show real progress, real and tangible results in the fight against organised crime, media freedom, freedom of justice, etc. that is why our group will be requesting a separate vote on this part, mrs lunacek, as i have informed you. once again, i thank you, mrs lunacek, and i hope that parliament's resolution will be adopted by a large majority.
the european union has already made a major contribution to the process of european integration, and we are pleased to see that the european union has taken a very active part in this process. kosovo has made significant progress in the past year and we must take into account the government's efforts to adopt human rights legislation and to take a constructive approach in the negotiations with serbia. this is a clear demonstration of the political will for reform and the desire for european integration. this ambition for change is at the heart of the stabilisation and association agreement signed with the european union, which will give new impetus to the development of the country's fragile economy. political dialogue with the european union will undoubtedly be fundamental in finding solutions to serious problems such as the rule of law, freedom of speech, corruption in the highest levels of government and the unsatisfactory participation of civil society in the socio-political life of the country. the development of kosovo is of enormous importance both for the balkans and for europe. this argument should be taken into account by the member states that do not yet recognise the country's independence, because only the full integration of the western balkan countries means stability and prosperity for the region.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr minister, yes, the priority in libya today is the formation of a government of national unity. we can only support the unparalleled efforts of martin kobler. the establishment of a government in tripoli is also a key element in ending the political vacuum and the symbolic and geographical division of the country, which allows terrorism to spread. in the immediate future, the situation in libya is at a major turning point and it is worth recalling the responsibility of the libyan parties, not only towards the libyans but also towards the other countries of the sahel region, including burkina faso and mali. we have known for a long time that the situation in libya is a regional and international security issue. the responsibility and conscience of the libyan parties are now the decisive elements. in the short and medium term, the european union and the international community will have to be ready on several fronts, as soon as the government is back in place, in order to redeploy the border management assistance mission and to rapidly deploy a new civilian mission. apart from these priorities, we must work to mobilize the international community for economic reconstruction now, because political peace will be in vain if the country's economy collapses and the government is powerless. thirdly, coordination and complementarity of the support of the international community must be organized. the united nations, the european union, the african union, the league of arab states all have a role to play in economic, security, reconciliation and the prevention of radicalisation, for example. only together can we avoid the situation in libya having ever more serious consequences for all of us.
in writing.– worsened economic, political and social situation in venezuela has created conditions for massive human rights violations. in this regard, opposition victory in recent parliamentary elections on 6 december 2015 was welcomed by many as the beginning of the transition period and democratisation. the eu should provide assistance and support to new venezuelan government, which has not an easy task to tackle a wide range of human rights issues, such as impunity, accountability for extrajudicial killings, arbitrary arrest and detention, fair trials, the independence of the judiciary, freedom of assembly and association, and media freedom. we should call on venezuelan authorities to work actively to promote and protect human rights in their own country and beyond, particularly in the shadow of venezuela’s membership of the unhcr.
author. mr president president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the island regions of the european union have common and specific permanent characteristics and peculiarities which clearly distinguish them from the continental territories. article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union expressly recognises that island regions as a whole are characterised by persistently unfavourable conditions. as indicated in the sixth report on economic, social and territorial cohesion, the impact of the crisis has seriously affected the development potential of many disadvantaged regions, including island regions. the islands of the european union are also peripheral regions situated on the external borders of the union. this makes them particularly vulnerable to the challenges currently facing europe, such as globalisation, demographic trends, climate change, energy supply, and in particular in the southern regions, exposure to increasing migration flows. the connectivity of island regions to the mainland is a key factor in developing their full potential. therefore, particular emphasis in their development should be placed on transport links, intermodal transport and sustainable mobility, as well as on the development of digital capacity, which is vital to offset the disadvantages of connectivity. these and other factors should lead the eu to adopt specific measures to improve the social, economic and territorial cohesion of island regions. however, in preparing the 2014-2020 programming period, eu island regions did not receive any specific funding, only the possibility to modulate the co-financing rates for certain types of islands. in this context, on behalf of the committee on regional development, i would like to ask the european commission: can the european commission provide a clear definition of the type of permanent adverse natural or demographic conditions under article 174 tfeu that island regions are expected to face at nuts 2 and nuts 3 level? what specific cohesion policy instruments and resources are available to address the handicaps arising from the insularity of these territories? what action will the commission take in the future with regard to compliance with article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union as regards the recognition of the persistent disadvantages faced by island regions at nuts 2 and nuts 3 level as permanent obstacles that may affect the achievement of the objectives of cohesion policy? does the european commission consider that indicators other than gdp, which go beyond the measurement of economic output and take into account the specificities of islands, such as the regional competitiveness index, could be taken into account in order to better reflect the economic and social vulnerability due to the persistent adverse natural conditions faced by these regions? i await the commission's answers.
author. mr president president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the framework legislation in the field of regional policy requires member states to create the necessary conditions for consultation with the local and regional level of government in the preparation and implementation of partnership agreements and specific operational programmes. regional and local authorities are closest to citizens and have a better understanding of local problems and specificities. they have the advantage of formulating policies and initiatives aimed at improving the lives of citizens in the areas of job creation, innovation, health, environment, energy, transport we could go on and on. on the other hand, regional and local authorities, as a result of their limited resources, need more significant budget support and project co-financing compared to the national level. the degree to which regional and local authorities are consulted in the implementation of cohesion policy varies considerably between member states, with some member states still not applying the partnership principle enshrined in european legislation sufficiently. in general, regional and local authorities in the federal member states have greater scope to shape national policies because of the powers they have powers that have an impact at the pararegional and local level. it is important to emphasise that improving administrative capacity at local and regional level is a key factor for better strategic planning and implementation of operational programmes and for more effective implementation of the structural and cohesion funds. it is important to note that cities are engines of economic growth and employment, centres for the development of art, culture and creativity, platforms for innovation and start-ups. smart cities and smart specialisation strategies are innovative practices that have been transformed into specific european union policies or initiatives. in addition, with the 2015 riga declaration, the informal council of ministers for regional development will lead to the amsterdam pact. the pact aims to increase the involvement of european cities in the proposal, design and implementation of specific initiatives and programmes in the field of urban development. last but not least, the role of regional and local authorities is also important in the development of crossborder links and initiatives, part of european territorial cooperation. in this context, i would like to ask the european commission, through commissioner crezzo, to answer the following questions defined by the european parliament's committee on regional policy: what specific support will the european commission provide to regional and local authorities to strengthen their role in the impact and management and implementation of the european structural and investment funds for the period 2014-2020, taking into account their respective responsibilities and the specificities of individual member states with a view to creating economic growth and sustainable jobs? and the second question: will the commission carry out a public consultation followed by a possible initiative to strengthen the role of regional and local authorities? in addition to these issues, i would like to emphasise that they are of particular importance to the committee on regional policy in the european parliament, since the participation of regional and local authorities is the basis for the successful implementation of cohesion policy, that is, the basis for achieving the objective of 'competitiveness, growth and jobs'. the role of local and regional authorities is also central to the future planning of cohesion policy for the period after 2020. i look forward to the commission's answers and the debate.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate mr van nistelrooy on the efforts he has made on this resolution, which has been long awaited in our committee on regional development, and mrs mikhailova for supporting such initiatives. as you know, 80% of the european budget is managed by the member states and a huge percentage of this money is spent by european municipalities through projects that take place on their territory. but often a very large part of this money is difficult for municipalities to realise, to turn into projects. they say the only thing worse than not having money is having it and not knowing what to do with it. to avoid such a situation, i suggest a few things: first, support for municipalities from a to z, from project selection through submission, reporting and management, so that no mistakes are made; create flexible funding. i know many mayors in many countries who can't afford to do a project because they don't have the money. we need to encourage countries to create compensatory mechanisms for this.
in writing. colleagues, regional and local authorities are closest to citizens and have the best view of local needs, policies and initiatives to improve citizens' lives job creation, health, environment, energy, transport, etc. on the other hand, these bodies have limited resources compared to the national level and need more substantial budget support, both for co-financing projects and for specific local policies. in general, regional and local authorities must be able to participate in the shaping of european and national policies that have an impact at regional and local level. there is certainly a tendency to increase the degree of consultation of regional and local authorities in cohesion policy, but this consultation varies widely between member states. cities are engines of economic growth and employment and an ideal platform for innovation and start-ups. smart cities and smart specialisation strategies are two areas that can quickly become specific eu policies or initiatives. in this context, the commission should take the initiative to strengthen the role and influence of local and regional authorities in the management of the european structural and investment funds, so that they can serve european citizens in the most effective way.
in writing. ‒ the european commission's annual report rightly recognises that the legal and institutional framework to guarantee the fundamental rights of minorities is in place, but unfortunately the legislation remains on paper and is not implemented. i am in constant contact with the bulgarian community in serbia, which complains of severe discrimination by the local authorities bulgarian schools are not funded, there is a lack of educational materials in bulgarian, freedom of association is restricted. people generally live in fear of being called bulgarians. i supported the european parliament resolution on serbia's 2015 progress report because it calls on the serbian government to ensure consistency in the implementation of the legal framework for the protection of minorities throughout the country. serbia has much to do to ensure that every ethnic minority can freely use its language, have access to education, participate in local government, have media and worship services in the minority language. i strongly hope that in the process of serbia's integration with the european union, the situation of the bulgarian community will improve.
in writing. ‒ i support the report because it is an indisputable fact that serbia has embarked on the path of reform and european integration. we should congratulate the country on the opening of accession negotiations on chapters 32 (financial control) and 35 (normalization of relations with kosovo). the willingness of serbia to work in this direction is a clear sign of the presence of political will for change and development. in the past year, serbia has also emerged as an important partner of the european union in the balkans on the issue of the migration crisis. the government has made great efforts to provide asylum and protection to many third-country nationals on its territory. of course, despite the progress made, serbia needs to make additional efforts to address issues in leading political spectrums such as the protection of minorities, the rule of law, the fight against corruption and discrimination, and violence against lgbti people. i believe that the european union can provide significant technical assistance to the country to meet these challenges. i think it is extremely important for the serbian government to bring its foreign policy fully into line with that of the european union. efforts in this direction will legitimize serbia's desire to be part of the european family. and what greater reward for the european union than the membership of all the western balkan countries in our structures?
in writing. – serbia has made substantial progress on its path towards the european union. as a neighbouring country to bulgaria, the two countries are closely related and cross-border cooperation could be facilitated if serbia enters the eu. i welcome serbian reform efforts and i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur in the shadow of the european parliament resolution on kosovo's european integration process, i am satisfied with the final text of the resolution, as many of my amendments and proposals were taken into account. i am very pleased that the resolution mentions the bulgarian community, the so-called 'gorani', and calls for respect for their rights and freedoms. although i support the european integration of kosovo, i decided to abstain because the resolution contains a text with which i do not entirely agree, namely a call on the european commission to liberalize the visa regime with kosovo as soon as possible. i and my colleagues in the european conservatives and reformists group are of the opinion that the country has to fulfil a number of requirements and commitments in the fight against organised crime before the european commission takes steps towards visa liberalisation. the situation is further complicated by the fact that of all the countries in europe, the largest number of foreign fighters for the islamic state comes from kosovo. that is why i think that the visa regime should not be liberalised at this stage.
in writing. - we're looking into the situation in libya. there is no situation in libya, simply because there is no libya anymore. this country, which was a friend of all western democracies, no longer exists. in the territory of the former libya, today we have a war, a war between different tribal alliances, supporting one or another terrorist organization and/or those who fight against them. and here we have to say in plain text who is to blame for this. now we have to deal with those consequences, but we also have to learn the lessons and help this country work again. and that goes through stopping isis and its backers like turkey. i hope that happens, which is why i supported this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the situation in libya is disturbing. just across the mediterranean sea, anarchy, chaos and violence are spreading. nowadays in libya there is an ongoing civil war, an enormous migration crisis and the presence of a brutal terrorist organisation, daesh. because of growing instability oil-rich libya can be considered a failed state. there is no doubt that in this complicated situation the eu should act quickly in order to avoid the spread of instability and terror in the region and beyond. we should bear in mind that this neighbouring failed state represents a real threat to the eu’s security and stability. therefore, the eu should urge libya’s rival politicians to accept the creation of an un-backed unity cabinet. a united libyan cabinet will have a significant chance to restore stability and peace in a war-torn country. in case that unity cabinet is formed, the eu has to provide extensive development assistance and aid in order to support the future institution-building process in the country.
in writing. – the situation in libya is particularly alarming - human rights situation is deteriorating throughout the country and violence against civilians, journalists, officials, political figures and human rights defenders perpetrated by all parties are a tragic reality. international community, along with the eu, should stand ready to support libyans in their efforts to successfully implement libiyan political agreement. that is the reason i vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted with 'abstention' on this resolution, as i do not entirely agree with some of the proposals made in it. i agree that the eu islands, as peripheral areas, are particularly vulnerable to the challenges europe is currently facing. in particular, the southern regions are exposed to increasing migration flows. these island regions are also leading tourist destinations, which also contribute to the eu's diversity in terms of both culture and the environment; they have the capacity to contribute to sustainable development with their renewable energy production potential or because of their specific location. however, i do not think that the european commission should yet create specific instruments to support these regions. in view of the crisis facing the eu, i believe that a better solution would be for member states with such island territories to develop a strategy to better absorb european funds and to better use existing instruments.
in writing. i supported this resolution because i strongly believe that disadvantaged areas, which include most rural areas in addition to islands, areas affected by industrial transition, and regions affected by serious and permanent natural or demographic handicaps, such as border and mountain areas, deserve special attention from the community, which should be reflected in financial and planning terms. these regions often have unique livelihoods, traditions and characteristics. in its quest for sustained economic growth, europe is pouring more and more resources into highly urbanised and already privileged areas for a number of reasons. however, geographically more remote or isolated areas are not only peripheral, but are also on the way to becoming economically and socially isolated, because they cannot always meet the criteria for economic return, which in most cases are based on the experience and statistics of urbanised and highly developed regions. i also support and call for the declaration of a 'year of islands and mountains' through this resolution, because such an initiative and other accompanying initiatives would help to overcome the economic and social difficulties faced by these specific regions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds, as the committee on regional development calls on the european commission to build on existing past and current initiatives in the field. the resolution also stresses the importance of available information for achieving the eu's objectives in the areas of economic and social cohesion. attention was also drawn to the difficulties faced by local authorities in their implementation.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds because i believe that the use of these funds, which is directed at european citizens, should be made in consultation with these authorities. according to some surveys, it is precisely local and regional institutions that are closest to citizens and enjoy their trust the most, due to their geographical and cultural proximity. these are also the bodies that know the problems of local communities best and would be among the most competent bodies to shape regional priorities. they are the ones that make the connection and strike the balance between the union's objectives and their implementation by citizens. there are problems such as depopulation, the effects of climate change and the shifting balance between urban and non-urban communities, which directly affect local and regional authorities and institutions. i therefore join the call to the european commission through this resolution to involve more actively representatives of these institutions in order to seek faster and more lasting solutions to the problems facing the european union.
ppe), in written form. ‒ the report highlights the key role of local and regional authorities in the development and implementation of eu strategies. the role of urban areas is highlighted, as is the fact that eu policies have an important role to play in creating the right framework for the growth and development of the potential of urban areas in europe. the report calls on the commission to work towards identifying measures to strengthen the role of local and regional authorities in the management and implementation of the european structural and investment funds, through partnership agreements and operational programmes. i support this report.
in writing. – regional and local authorities are close to citizens and better understand local needs as well as policies and initiatives aimed at improving citizens’ lives. therefore, the role of local and regional authorities is of high importance in shaping and implementing eu strategies. i am in favour of synergies and complementarity between the esi funds and other eu programmes, in which local and regional authorities can play a useful role in attaining the objectives of cohesion policy. therefore, i vote in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen because i am deeply concerned by the fact that security in the country is steadily deteriorating and is beginning to take on an international dimension. on the one hand, saudi arabia is waging an open war against the rebels, considering them iranian combat units, while iran is calling for an immediate halt to the aerial bombardments carried out by the international coalition led by saudi arabia. despite un efforts to bring peace to the country, intense fighting on land and air strikes continue. in addition to the thousands of civilian casualties, over a million and a half people have fled their homes. if no action is taken and no peace is achieved soon, there is a great danger that the situation in the country will escalate into a full-scale civil war and then into a regional ethnic war between shiites and sunnis.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because we all should be aware that the humanitarian situation in yemen is as critical as the situation in syria. in the 21st century it is an unspeakable shame for humanity that 16 million yemenis do not have access to drinking water or sanitation because of fighting and embargo. in addition to that, it is totally unacceptable for two million children to not have proper access to education, food and medical care. for one reason or another, the whole civilian population caught in the yemen civil war suffers from ongoing fighting, bombardment, food insecurity, dire living conditions and the disruption of essential services. in this critical situation, the eu – as the world’s leading human rights champion and aid donor – should provide emergency humanitarian assistance to the civilian population in yemen. together with the un, the eu should use all of its political and economic capabilities to facilitate peace negotiations.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution because it is an initiative of the european parliament which aims to give an appropriate description of the actions of this terrorist organisation. this qualification will also provide the direction for an international response. while daesh is not a threat only to minorities in the region, some are specifically targeted because of their religion or ethnicity. the responsibility of the international community is to oppose the hatred and violence of those who justify their actions by religion, international law and unity. the resolution calls for legal recognition through the use of the word genocide and recalls the mandate of the international criminal court, which has jurisdiction over crimes against humanity. on the unity front, i welcome the call to work together with the organisation of islamic cooperation, the cooperation council for the arab states of the gulf and more generally with religious leaders to promote the protection of ethnic and religious minorities and to counter ideologically and politically radical interpretations of islam.
in writing. ‒ undoubtedly, the worst humanitarian crisis of our time is syria. тhe syrian civil war is the most complex, most violent and deadliest conflict on earth. now in its fifth year, the conflict is more than just a battle between those for or against president assad. it has acquired ethno-religious character, spread into neighbouring countries, drawn in the world powers, and facilitated the rise of global jihadist groups like daesh. more often than not, these new dimensions of the syrian conflict jeopardise religious minorities in the extensively divided country. daesh is responsible for the systemic killing of religious minorities and, to put it simply, everyone who does not share their radical views. this brutal terror campaign against religious minorities is definitely an absolute crime against humanity. in addition, the assad regime is continuing to commit genocide against its own people. more than ever, as the worlds’ leading normative power, the eu should begin an extensive diplomatic push for finding a solution. this, ideally, could happen during negotiations between syrian government and opposition in geneva this month. there, the eu could show its global role in dealing with challenges.
in writing. the actions of the 'islamic state' cause the loss of human lives every day. the delayed response of the international community has allowed the terrorists to expand their activities beyond the borders of syria and iraq. the attacks on civilians, attacks on religious and cultural grounds, the destruction of cultural sites and the trafficking of cultural artefacts have shocked the world. today, christians, yazidis, and others who do not share the ideology preached by the islamic state are being systematically eliminated. attacks on religious and ethnic minorities can safely be qualified as a crime against humanity and genocide. i strongly condemn the atrocities of this terrorist group which has driven millions of people from their homes and taken the lives of thousands more. the financial flows to isis must be stopped at all costs. in europe, we have also witnessed this destructive ideology. dozens of young europeans have gone to syria and given their lives there. let's join forces to stop the terrorists once and for all.
in writing. there is currently no common european legislation defining a uniform system for the identification and registration of domestic animals such as dogs and cats, and each country determines the ways and means of doing so. the separate national systems, where they exist, are also not linked, resulting in a fragmented environment with incomplete or missing information on the status of animals. in the context of a common market for goods and services, free movement of persons and labour mobility, the existence of a pan-european registration system is highly necessary. it would save a lot of time and money, reduce the bureaucracy involved in moving an animal to another country and, last but not least, give owners much greater certainty about the origin of their pets. not to mention, of course, the benefits of disease control and the spread of infection between animals and humans, and the reduction of trafficking and abuse in the sale of dogs and cats. a single system of identification and registration would also encourage responsible animal husbandry, as it would no longer be so easy to throw animals out on the streets, and owners could be quickly traced and sanctioned, which in turn would reduce the population of stray dogs and cats.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. two objectives have been constantly on the agenda of this parliament in recent years: economic growth and employment. none of these goals would be achievable without healthy european citizens. we all know that the main responsibility in this area lies with the member states, but the european semester can and should be used as a tool to achieve modern health systems that meet the expectations and needs of citizens. i therefore consider it extremely important that within its framework there should be an assessment of the functioning of health systems. i call on the commission to develop tools to monitor health outcomes and measure access to high-quality health services in order to reduce inequalities in this area. the european union must reaffirm its commitment to the implementation of the 2020 strategy. we must demonstrate to the european citizens that we have a plan for the future of our continent. i therefore believe that the revision of strategy 2020 should be integrated very strongly into the european semester. the environment and health sector has great potential for growth, investment and job preservation. the european semester has a key role to play in promoting the necessary structural reforms.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. in its opinion on the annual growth survey, the committee on regional development calls on the european commission to better reflect the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy by improving its implementation and conducting a further review, and by proposing measures and methodology to better monitor the expenditure of european union funds related to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in this context, the forthcoming revision of the multiannual financial framework provides an opportunity to analyse and increase the added value of european union funding. the regi commission points out the links between the objectives of the european semester process and the programming of the european structural and investment funds and considers that cohesion policy investments can play a very important role in supporting structural reforms and the implementation of the european union's strategic objectives by following up on the relevant country-specific recommendations.
in writing.– a strong and stable eu economy has at its heart active citizens with access to opportunities for employing their professional and creative potential. i therefore welcome the inclusion of employment indicators in this year’s annual growth survey. activity rate, long-term unemployment and youth unemployment are very much needed as integral elements of the scoreboard, as they would allow us to track progress on key elements of employment. we are currently observing a positive trend of increasing employment and activity, whereby the overall eu employment rate has even reached its pre-crisis level. however, regional disparities remain and much more progress is needed to reach the employment target of 75% that the eu set itself for 2020. the means for achieving this goal are also anchored in the ags, which underlined the importance of the use of funds under horizon 2020 and the newly-created efsi. unfortunately, these instruments are not sufficiently understandable and applicable for the european citizens. if we are to fulfil our ambitions for a growing and thriving europe, we must really enable people with professional drive to engage in employment and self-employment. efsi and horizon 2020 must therefore really serve the interests of the economy and be made more accessible to citizens. this is how we will start creating employment.
in writing.– the free movement of workers is a fundamental principle of the treaty enshrined in article 45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in order to help workers to effectively exercise that right – to look for a job and to work in another eu country, enjoying the same treatment as the country´s nationals in terms of access to employment, working conditions and social benefits – we need to reinvigorate and adjust eures. this cooperation network for labour mobility clearly showed some shortcomings such as limited support services and information exchange, as well as not sufficient cooperation and lack of transparency in labour markets. in this regard, i find essential the incorporation into the network of effective public and private employment services. it is important to widen to scope of information which is available on the portal, ensuring that all jobseekers can obtain comprehensive information about the existing vacancies and all related employment conditions. on the other hand the portal should facilitate the automated matching of job vacancies and cvs, which will allow employers to quickly find and recruit workers who have the right skills and qualifications. reinvigorating eures will be highly beneficial for the reduction of the unemployment rates and will contribute to a more integrated union labour market.
in writing. if we measure our economies in terms of gdp growth rates, employment, especially among young people, is a matter of individuals and their future, not of numbers and charts. and specific young people only value specific measures and results, and that's why i suggest two specific steps. first, public-private employment services. in some countries, there are employment websites and services that do better than public employment services. some 80% of the funding for employment services is public. employment is most effectively created by private investment. businesses are hiring our young people and companies need to have a stronger voice and participation in the management of employment services. secondly, erasmus for young entrepreneurs is the new employment for young people. but we need to change two things: global erasmus in the us, china, japan and elsewhere. young europeans to learn from the best entrepreneurs, then start a business and hire more young people; a demand-driven budget. the programme's budget for 2020 is just €55.3. 90% of the participating entrepreneurs are under 40 years old, and over a third of them have started their own business after participating. in view of the above two sentences, i know that there is no law, regulation, directive or institution that can serve as an excuse and justification.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am outraged by the situation which has been developing for months on the border between greece and bulgaria. for several years 2009, 2010, this border was blocked by farmers and caused huge damage to bulgarian carriers, bulgarian producers, bulgarian entrepreneurs and european ones. many truck owners from poland, the czech republic, slovakia, austria are also in this blockade and also suffer heavy financial losses. what i would like to say and ask of the european commission is that it should act quickly and resolve this blockade quickly and that the european treaties should be respected, since the treaty on the functioning of the european union is currently being violated. this cannot go on either there will be a european union and there will be freedom of movement, or there will be none. and that is my request to the european commission. otherwise, there's no need for it.
in writing. ‒ the report by ms uspakic concerns the accession of austria and malta to the hague convention of 15 november 1965 on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. my group and i are opposed to the fact that the eu should not have legal competence in this area. that is why i voted with an abstention. i'm not against austria and malta joining the hague convention. i believe that as sovereign states, the governments of both countries should be able to make this decision at national level without needing approval at european level.
in writing. ‒ tax fraud is one of the areas where the union budget suffers the most. it is important that member states cooperate with each other in combating them. in addition, the eu needs cooperation with european countries that are not members of the eu but are part of the european economic community. i supported the report, but i still think that a huge effort is needed to continue signing similar agreements with other countries in europe, which are known as 'tax haven' countries. we will thus bring the rest of the continent into the union, making it a stable and economically developing place.
in writing. ‒ san marino’s agreement to cooperate with the eu on tax transparency could serve as an example to the world how the fight against tax avoidance and tax evasion should be conducted. there is no doubt that the automatically exchange of information between the eu member states and san marino will contribute to the efforts to deter hiding income and assets abroad and will promote fair distribution of the tax burden for all citizens. for the good of the union and member states, the eu should sign same type of agreement with all of its partners.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by tomáš zdechovski on croatia's accession to the convention on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests and its protocols aim to establish a common legal basis for criminal law for the protection of the european communities' financial interests. fraud affecting both revenue and expenditure should be punishable by effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties, including imprisonment, which may lead to extradition. the convention was adopted on 26 july 1995 and entered into force on 17 october 2002. this proposal formalises the accession of croatia to the conventions after its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ ms becker's report refers to the eu's eures platform, which aims to facilitate labour mobility within the union. the aim of the proposed regulation is to make eures a tool for jobseekers as well as for employers by creating a 'database' of vacancies and profiles across the eu. in the current situation of high unemployment, which is spreading across many member states, i believe that such an instrument would undoubtedly have a positive effect. i support the report, but i think it is important nevertheless to give member states the freedom to give employers the option not to publish a particular advertisement on the platform depending on the requirements of the specific position.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on a european network of employment services, workers' access to mobility services and further integration of labour markets, as i believe that the free movement of people in the eu is as important as the free movement of goods, services and capital, although it is the least used of the four rights. in this context, i believe that we should support legislative initiatives aimed at promoting the free movement of workers within the eu and facilitating the protection of the social rights associated with it, as this benefits both european citizens themselves and businesses and the needs of the economy as a whole.
in writing. – the proposed regulation aims to enhance the access of workers to intra-eu mobility support services, maintaining the eures network as an effective instrument for jobseekers (including traineeships and apprenticeships) and registered employers who have a stake in labour mobility within the union. i believe that better job search and recruitment services across europe are essential to fighting unemployment, especially among young people. that is why i am favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by ms de sarnez on the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures in relation to tunisia, as i believe that after the terrorist attack in sousse last june, the country needs additional eu support on its path of political and economic transition. eu foreign ministers agreed on a package of short-term measures to have a positive effect on the country's transition. the commission proposal concerns a temporary duty-free quota of 35 000 tonnes per year for olive oil exports to the eu under these emergency trade measures for a period of 2 years (1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017). however, i believe that there should be effective control and i support the idea of the commission carrying out an interim evaluation and, if necessary, proposing measures against possible infringements resulting from the emergency measures.
in writing. european agriculture is facing a crisis. although olive oil was not included in the list of goods banned from importation into russia, the embargo imposed by the federation had a wide impact on the whole sector and, as a result, european agriculture continues the worrying trend of losing its attractiveness. uncertainties in the sector make this livelihood less attractive as the scissors of the generational gap are increasingly unraveling. the illiberal free trade policies and the removal of protective mechanisms for european farmers only contribute to the consolidation of these trends. the european union must be responsible towards its neighbours, but without being to the detriment of the european farmer, who is increasingly the victim of political decisions.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is a fund that helps workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changing global trade patterns to find new ones or to acquire new skills. i am voting against the mobilisation of this fund again because i think it is not efficient and that the funds should be used differently, and i fully support measures that help stimulate the economy so that new jobs are created, but i think that giving €1 million to 400 people who have lost their jobs is not serious and is certainly not efficient.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain from voting on this report because i consider that it partly deals with issues that are outside the eu's sphere of competence. at the same time, the report does not contain a clear message. it's impossible to form an opinion about something so vague. while the report calls for improvement and structural reforms, it also calls for a significant policy shift. this implies a debate on the redistribution and definition of responsibilities, which must move from the national parliamentary level to the plenary level in the ep. the euro area, which at the same time may be formally referred to as a macroeconomic entity, certainly cannot be called 'one whole'. there are too many factors specific to each country to make the proposed approach illogical, because the original hypothesis is simply not true. there is no comprehensive approach to deep policy coordination within the eu.
in writing. – the annual growth survey (ags) identified three policy priorities for 2016: re-launching investment, pursuing structural reforms and responsible fiscal policies. the use of funds under horizon 2020 and the european structural and investment funds is essential for supporting growth and innovation across europe. this annual growth survey thus sets out what more can be done at eu level to help member states support growth, reinforce economic convergence, create jobs and strengthen social fairness. hence, i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i support further initiatives to improve economic growth and employment, but nevertheless, i have decided not to support this report mainly because of its overly binding nature. this report contains some important priority issues, but despite the fact that it is mainly a balanced overall report, calling for a number of initiatives at eu level which would not only affect subsidiarity but also undermine national regulatory policy.
in writing. – following the publication of the annual growth survey 2016, which set out the priorities at european level, this report shifts the attention of the european semester to the national dimension. as discussed in the report, the bulgarian economy has been gradually emerging from the crisis, but a broad-based recovery is yet to be achieved. therefore, i welcome the resolution and i look forward to the country-specific recommendations to be presented in may 2016 by the commission based on the analysis presented in the country reports and the dialogue held with member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the single market in the context of the 2016 european semester, as i believe that efforts should be directed towards improving the functioning of the single market. better governance and more transparency are among the main positives outlined in this report. speaking of the single market, it is also important to emphasise that the european semester respects the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which are important for the member states. however, there is also a need to strengthen existing mechanisms and instruments to improve governance.
in writing. – at the heart of europe’s competitiveness, and its biggest economic strength, is the single market, which with 500 million persons gives the eu the opportunity to be a global economic force. the report on single market governance within the european semester 2016 emphasises that europe now faces a different kind of competition – a digital one. instead of developing powerful industrial sectors locally, advanced economies could be established by adopting the latest technologies and sourcing products and services globally. during my mandate as an mep i am fully supporting the digitalisation process of european industry and the opportunities a fully operational digital single market (dsm) could bring to the eu. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ negotiations for the signing of a free trade agreement with tunisia were launched in october last year. i supported this resolution as it outlines the priority areas for these negotiations which the european commission should pay attention to when formulating its position. i think tunisia is one of the few countries in the region that has managed to become a democratic state to a large extent, as a result of the events of the arab spring. the commission should work towards an agreement that is beneficial to both parties, paying attention to the fact that exports of food and agricultural products produced in tunisia must meet the eu's high quality standards.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta) will benefit both sides (the eu and tunisia). in the case of tunisia, it will help support economic reforms and further consolidate young democracy in that country. whereas, in the case of the eu, the deal will not only facilitate trade and economic growth but also will provide an opportunity to the union to promote democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms in a neighbouring country, which is located in a very unstable north-african region characterised by extensive human rights violations, irregular migration and the presence of islamic state. namely, in this context, i supported the dcfta with tunisia because above all it will be a stepping stone for further economic and political integration of the euro-mediterranean region that will bring in long—term economic growth, stability, security, peace and prosperity.
in writing. the european union is founded on the ideas of solidarity and mutual assistance, aimed at the mutual integration of the economies of the member states. however, european producers in all sectors are increasingly subject to a series of transformations and transitions, such as the process of accession to the community. for this reason, i believe that the european union must seek and ensure the good and smooth functioning of the european single market as a matter of priority. tunisia has traditional ties with the european union, which is the country's first and most important economic partner. the commission notes that the tunisian authorities have not provided any evidence that the tunisian producers are in a comparable situation to the union producers. free trade agreements are a tool which, in my view, has the opposite effect for the european producer. there are still many mechanisms to maintain inequalities between european farmers in order to open up this single market freely. i therefore believe that another free trade agreement will only create more uncertainty for european producers and that is why i did not support the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the eu and tunisia.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this report, not only because it welcomes and encourages initiatives such as better access to institutions for people with disabilities, but also because it supports efforts such as the creation of mandatory transparency of lobbying registers in so-called 'expert groups', drug research and, above all, the use of horizon 2020 funds. in particular, the use of funds underlies a number of institutional issues which in turn have a direct impact on the member states. above all, clarity on how funds are allocated is essential to ensure trust within member states and between member states within the european union.
in writing. – the european ombudsman is committed to ensuring that citizens, ngos, associations and companies are aware of their right to complain about maladministration in the eu institutions. i welcome the ombudsman’s investigation into whether the eu institutions are living up to their obligations and i believe that the ombudsman should continue urging for better transparency on the members and meetings of all experts groups expert groups, technology platforms and agencies.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank's annual report for 2014 reflects the bank's real state of affairs, as well as several criticisms of unconventional monetary policy. in my political group's view, the report contains several paragraphs which are too positive in their assessment of the central bank's activities. for this reason, i decided to abstain.
in writing. – the publication of the annual report complements ecb efforts towards greater transparency by describing the actions that the ecb undertook in 2014. from a monetary policy perspective, the environment we faced in 2014 was very complex and demanding, for the year as a whole, we saw gdp growing by 0.9% in the euro area. the policy measures introduced by the ecb have contributed to lower interest rates in capital markets. even though bulgaria is not yet part of the euro area, i believe a strong euro area is an essential element of a strong and competitive european union. therefore, i support the report and the measures taken by the ecb.
in writing. ‒ a short resolution drafted by the european parliament's committee on international trade outlines its support for the european commission's decision to start work on the preparation of negotiations for free trade agreements with australia and new zealand. the resolution recognises that australia and new zealand are a key part of the eu's overall strategy in the asia-pacific region and that all agreements should be mutually beneficial to both parties. i agree, and that's why i voted for the resolution. the competitiveness of european firms on the world market should be supported by such agreements. i also welcome the commission's intention to make a preliminary assessment of the impact on the economies of the eu member states, and this is an important step in deciding on future action.
in writing. ‒ the opening of free trade agreement negotiations with australia and new zealand represents a significant step forward for economic growth and prosperity for all involved sides. an agreement will ensure eu trade reaches its full potential, particularly in the context of the eastern shift in the world’s economy. for australia, removing trade barriers with the eu, which is the country’s third largest trading partner, will definitely result in increased export growth. on the other hand, for new zealand, a trade deal with the eu will be beneficial for inward investment since the eu represents the country’s second largest source of investment. last but not least, the fta with australia and new zealand will not only highlight our common interests such as economic growth, human rights, security and peace but also facilitate political cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, mainly because of the public health problem of citizens and the fact that the introduction of a compatible system for the identification and registration of pets throughout the eu could contribute to the tracing of the cause of pet disease outbreaks, which is inevitably linked to public health of people. the right of citizens to travel with their pets across the eu should also be protected and a common register would facilitate this movement.
in writing. i supported the text of this resolution because i believe that a collaborative approach through the building of compatible pet registration systems will help to tackle a number of the problems that exist today. experts have reported an increase in the illegal trade in pets, as well as a number of breaches of the pet travel scheme, such as falsification of documents and avoidance of checks. another problem with the pet trade is that they are often bred in poor conditions, as research has shown. 70% of new human diseases in recent decades are of animal origin and that animals commonly kept as pets are carriers of over 100 zoonotic diseases, including rabies. the introduction of a single or mutually recognised registration system and requirements would be a significant step forward in the protection of animal welfare and public health.
in writing. – dogs and cats may be moved between eu member states or imported from third countries for trade purposes or other reasons. these movements could pose a risk to both animal and human health if measures are not taken to prevent diseases from being transferred between countries. without a system for the identification and registration of dogs and cats, which is accessible across the eu, there is currently little traceability when animals are moved over borders. that is why i welcome the introduction of registration of pet animals across member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'abstention' on the resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen, as what is happening in the country is deeply worrying but also complex. security in yemen is steadily deteriorating and is beginning to take on an international dimension, but at the same time we are witnessing a conflict of interest between two states - saudi arabia and iran. on the one hand, saudi arabia is waging open war against the rebels, considering them iranian combat units, while iran is calling for an immediate halt to the aerial bombardments carried out by the international coalition led by saudi arabia. despite un efforts to bring peace to the country, intense fighting on land and air strikes continue. in addition to the thousands of civilian casualties, over a million and a half people have fled their homes. if no action is taken and no peace is achieved soon, there is a great danger that the situation in the country will escalate into a full-scale civil war and then into a regional ethnic war between shiites and sunnis.
in writing. ‒ we all should be aware that the humanitarian situation in yemen is very critical. it is an unspeakable shame for humanity for 20 million yemenis to be living below the poverty line in dire living conditions without access to drinking water, sanitation, education, medical care and essential services. furthermore, because of fighting and an embargo, 2.5 million people have been displaced internally while around 125 000 yemeni refugees have fled the country. in this critical situation, the eu, as the world’s leading human rights champion and aid donor, should provide emergency humanitarian assistance to the civilian population in yemen. furthermore, together with the un, the eu should use all of its political and economic capabilities to facilitate peace negotiations. if the eu manages to put an end to the civil wars in yemen and syria then it will be a matter of time untilwe find a long-term peaceful solution in the middle east.
in writing. the situation in the middle east and its neighbouring regions continues to be an epicentre of instability with spill-over effects on europe. according to the information available since the beginning of the conflict, there are nearly 6,000 victims and nearly 30,000 wounded. i find particularly disturbing the information from unicef that the conflict has had a serious impact on access to education for nearly 2 million children and that over 3,500 schools have been closed. deprived of education and prospects for further development, these children are becoming easy targets for radicalization, and the likelihood of this leading to even more negative consequences and violence in the region in the years to come is growing. yemen is strategically located in the region, close to other conflict zones. the lack of a solution to the conflict and the will to do so have given terrorist organisations ample scope to expand and strengthen their presence in the region. for these reasons, i strongly support the call for the international community to adopt measures that will contribute to the cessation of armed action and conflict in the country.
in writing. the european parliament's proposals to amend regulation (eu) no 1308/2013 and regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 as regards the school fruit and vegetables, banana and milk scheme ensure a higher degree of achievement of the specific and accompanying objectives of the programme. they provide a greater opportunity, along with increased consumption of fruit, vegetables and milk by children, to stimulate more local production. i find the proposals for the provision and supply of local and regional products and the possibility of including other local, regional or national specialties such as honey, olives and olive oil in the scope of the regulation particularly valuable. this makes the programme more appropriate to the different conditions in the countries and contributes to the development of agriculture. this will help solve some of the problems of bulgarian farmers. i welcome the proposal to provide more aid to the less developed regions, which is a sign of european solidarity and promotes social cohesion.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, i agree with the rapporteur that we have had a very useful process of preparing this report, and i do believe that the result is such as to contribute to the increasing confidence of citizens that their financial interests are being protected in the proper way. i would like to point out three items from our report and ask the commissioner to comment. the first has to do with the interruptions and suspensions. i believe it is very important to highlight what is in the report that these should be used in accordance with the relevant legal basis, and in the context, madam vice—president – something i find very important – is that you have adopted a new early warning mechanism. i would like to invite you to comment on the expectation for the creation of a comprehensive system of early detection and exclusion which the commission is to propose. i fully agree with colleagues who have pointed out that prevention is the important element. secondly, the question of directly managed funds, madam commissioner: it is highly worrisome that there is a four-fold increase in the fraudulent irregularities in 2014, something which the commission should provide a detailed explanation for and outline the action it will take. thirdly, you highlighted the issue of correct reporting. i would only go along with colleagues and what is in the report that the situation now is highly unsatisfactory – we do not have a clear enough picture, so we very much rely on those efforts which you have pointed out to really make a change, even for next year’s report.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i would like first of all to congratulate the rapporteur, mr jávor, for the well done report, and thanks also to commissioner georgieva for her detailed statement. in real europe, cases of fraud raise public attention and damage the reputation of the union. it obliges us to ensure sound financial management and to put in place all necessary measures to protect the eu budget. the annual report of the commission on the protection of the eu’s financial interests presents the functioning of preventive and corrective mechanisms and actions taken by the commission services to protect the eu budget from illegal or irregular expenditure and irregularities related to their revenue. while the eu and member states are sharing responsibility for protection of the eu’s financial interests in fighting fraud, it is essential that the commission and the member states work together to protect effectively those interests. here i can say that the commission is working in that direction, as has been stated by commissioner georgieva. the report presents the real situation in the area of financial interests of the union, to include the status of detection and reporting of irregularities, revenues and expenditures. problems are also identified and a number of measures are presented in the areas of reporting and control. the committee on budgetary control (cont committee) suggests the development of a system of indicators to measure the level of corruption in the member states, amending the eu staff regulations to protect whistle-blowers and enhance transparency of lobbying. among the policy areas considered at risk are public procurement, tobacco smuggling and counterfeit goods. the cont committee suggests enhancing cooperation among eu institutions to tackle fraudulent behaviour in the use of eu funds. investigations and the role of olaf are highlighted. well-developed is a chapter related to performance-based budgeting and the value—for—money approach. finally, it is important that anti-fraud measures are undertaken and should find the balance between control and the desire not to discourage beneficiaries. we need to secure not only a better revenue part of the budget ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i've always believed that in this room, objectivity and professionalism should take precedence over ordinary political competition. moreover, i am glad that this report does not point to good and bad, but points to something much more: the need for a common approach to the control of european funds. just as we have a common approach to their collection and distribution through the european funds, we also need a common approach to their control. moreover, i'm glad we distinguish between error and abuse, because a lot of mistakes are due to long and arduous procedures. it is no coincidence that many beneficiaries prefer to take out a loan rather than go to european funds. that's why we need more money for technical assistance, simplification and simpler and lighter rules so that people can understand them and can follow them without any problems. i am happy that my country is one of those that is cited as an example, that reports errors even before an audit of the european commission. it is also important to say that the previous mandate had much worse results in terms of control of the euro funds and errors, so we must also take into account the work of vice-president georgieva in this direction for these better results.
when we talk about women's socioeconomic status, we have to consider the relationship between their education, the income they earn, and the career opportunity they have. unfortunately, the figures show that despite the high overall education of european women, equality in the other two indicators lags behind. a new european union strategy for gender equality by 2020 would help to bring about faster change and more effective results. the international women's day is an occasion to recall that, with the support of both the european parliament and the council, it is time for a new strategy to be formally adopted, but also to be put into effect effectively, with real, concrete policies in the member states aimed at improving the socioeconomic situation of women and achieving gender equality. and since i mentioned today's holiday, i want to use this platform to congratulate the international women's day to all the ladies in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to support this legislative proposal because it is not only in line with the objective of simplifying european law, but also contributes to improving legal transparency. it is often not understood that we need these kinds of initiatives, as their scope extends far beyond simple rules and regulations for farmers, traders and animal professionals. this is an extremely important way of combating the emergence of diseases that can significantly affect public health, agricultural production or animal welfare.
i supported the report on the voluntary scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables and milk in educational establishments because i strongly believe that it gives an additional impetus to improving the eating habits of young people. this in itself is also an investment in the public health of future generations. i think it is necessary to emphasise the need to use organic products in this scheme. for its target group, the consumption of organic products is of particular importance, as it ensures the consumption of products with qualities closest to natural ones. the newly adopted regulation, which enters into force in august 2017, also addresses a particularly important aspect, namely the preference for local and regional producers to participate in the scheme. it increases the subsidy for the supply of dairy products by 20 million a year, which will enable, in particular, disadvantaged children to eat healthy food. that's why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ protecting the health of the future generation, together with reducing the administrative burden, is something i cannot help but support. on the one hand, children should be taught from an early age to eat healthy foods, such as fruit and dairy products. it is also important to note that many young children are allergic to lactose and that dairy products are available with reduced or no lactose content.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it aims to build healthy eating habits in children from an early age by increasing the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables, milk and milk products in schools. the proposal for a regulation is of particular importance as it consolidates, continues and strengthens the school fruit and vegetables, banana and milk schemes. i welcome the fact that the european parliament's efforts have resulted in an increase of the new annual budget by eur 20 million, bringing it to eur 250 million. i thank my colleagues for the broad support they have given to my proposal to include in both school schemes traditional and local products with proven positive effects on children's health, such as honey, yogurt and cheese. the new member state schemes will provide an additional tool to stimulate local production, organic products and short supply chains. in order to ensure the effectiveness of the scheme, it is envisaged that national strategies on accompanying educational measures will be drawn up.
in writing. ‒ childhood obesity is increasingly common due to the frequent consumption of highly processed foods with added sugar, salt and fat. at the same time, there is a decline in the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products. i therefore believe that it is of the utmost importance to continue and strengthen the two schemes for the supply of fruit, vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments. these schemes need a more flexible funding mechanism to take account of the number of children aged between six and ten and to provide more support for less developed regions. one of the main positive aspects of the schemes is the presence of accompanying educational measures, which aim to re-establish the link between children and agriculture. it would therefore be appropriate to allow member states to include local products and educational activities such as visits to the farms where those products are produced. an example of this might be the inclusion of other dairy products such as yoghurt and cheese. i therefore welcome the texts adopted by a large majority (584 votes in favour).
in writing. – food habits in most european countries have changed rapidly in recent decades. industrialisation and other socioeconomic factors have played a major role in changing the geographical distribution of the population, with densely populated cities and depopulation in rural areas. the diet in most countries across the eu, including bulgaria, is characterised by high consumption of animal products and processed foods and low consumption of plant products. child obesity in bulgaria for example is growing at alarming rates, ranking 5th in the eu. increased availability of fruits, vegetables and dairy products as components of school meals may be an effective strategy to promote healthy eating behaviours among children. that is why i voted in favour of the report to support the scheme.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the proposal for a regulation to unify the school milk and school fruit and vegetable schemes. the new rules, which should apply from the 2017/2018 school year, will encourage the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables, milk and milk products by the youngest pupils aged between six and ten years and increase their knowledge of food origin and healthy eating. in the committee on agriculture and rural development, we fought for a bigger budget for school milk (an additional €20 million), bringing the total budget for the two schemes for one school year to €250 million. we have put a strong emphasis on educational measures to educate about food origin and healthy eating, local food chains, organic farming, sustainable production and the fight against food waste. we've expanded the range of products to be included on the students' menu, including honey, yogurt and cheese. small producers have been directly affected by the crisis in the milk sector and the difficulties on the fruit and vegetable market. for this reason, i consider it necessary to give priority to local production, short supply chains, organic and seasonal products when preparing national rules for the application of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ reality sometimes shows that it is not competition but regulation that makes a market better. cartel agreements between large organisations in a particular sector lead to distortions of markets that affect smaller players and, of course, the end user. the country i represent has a number of ports which are small by community standards and, with the introduction of these regulations, i hope they will be able to compete to some extent with the large european ports. that is why i supported this report.
in writing. – europe’s ports are vital gateways, linking its transport corridors to the rest of the world with 74% of goods entering or leaving europe by sea. nevertheless the sector is facing major challenges in terms of traffic growth and investment. the eu needs good performing ports across all maritime regions. the commission’s proposal seeks to contribute to the goal of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the ten-t by creating a framework which improves the performance of ports and helps them to cope with changes in transport and logistics requirements. i believe the proposal could benefit all ports that are part of the trans-european transport network and i am, therefore, in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ outdated regulations need to be modernised. i fully support the initiatives to update the applicable provisions. this regulation alone dates from 1995. taking into account consumer price statistics and market developments, as well as other factors involved, it is necessary to review regularly the effectiveness of the existing regulatory framework. moreover, the text does not undermine national authority and while eurostat will focus mainly on euro area-specific details, national statistical authorities will retain control through the implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ the harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicp) are designed to measure inflation in a harmonised manner across member states. the commission and the european central bank use the hicp in their assessment of price stability in member states. as we all well know, maintaining price stability is a very crucial task since it makes a significant contribution to general welfare, including levels of economic activity and employment. in this regard, it is more than necessary for member states in the euro area to provide early provisional information on the monthly harmonised indices of consumer price. by doing this member states will have the opportunity to conduct monetary policy in the euro area that is needed and right.
in writing. ‒ i decided to abstain on this report because every year we adopt many resolutions and reports on the fight against fraud of all kinds and, finally, we are constantly witnessing fraud on a large scale. of course, we're making great progress, but there's still a lot to be desired. we must be more strict in the prosecution and detection of financial crimes, because this way not only the community budget but also the member states are harmed.
in writing. ‒ the report indicates that approximately 10% of irregularities at eu level are identified as fraud, amounting to €538 million. in the same year, 193 payments in the eu related to the cohesion and agricultural policies were stopped, amounting to more than €7.7 billion. the report summarises that the financial expression of irregularities in the eu increased in 2014 compared to the previous year. the report to the european parliament on the protection of financial interests is based on the commission's annual report for 2014. this is the first annual report on the subject by the commission, which is drawn up with the assistance of the member states. it presents a detailed analysis and recommendations for achieving concrete results in the fight against financial fraud in the eu. i support the proposed resolution.
in writing. – fighting fraud and corruption by all means is a key element of the eu policy agenda to strengthen and increase the confidence of citizens and ensure that their money is used properly. the overall financial impact, based on the reported irregularities, on the eu budget was 36% greater than in 2013. that is why i welcome the report by the committee on budgetary control and especially the importance of enhanced cooperation among eu institutions to tackle fraudulent behaviour in the use of eu funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report, firstly, because i think we have much more important issues to deal with in the european parliament, which concern society as a whole. the report initially included a proposal for gender-neutral sanitation facilities. yes, it was rejected in committee, but what remains is also quite problematic imposing quotas for female committee chairs. in that case we should also impose quotas on which regions vote for men and which for women, so that we have equality among the representatives in the european parliament. yes, i think there should be gender representation and women should not be discriminated against in terms of pay when they do the same job as men, but there are jobs that are suitable for women and jobs that are suitable for men, and quotas cannot be a solution.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on mainstreaming gender in the work of the european parliament because i believe that progress on gender equality and respect for women's rights depends on a cross-cutting approach in addition to specific measures, and that we need to regularly assess the relevance and performance of our parliamentary work in this area. i particularly welcome the calls made to the political groups and the administration to ensure a gender balance in parliamentary committees and at the various levels of the hierarchy. i believe that the european institutions can also make progress by setting an example and creating role models for young european women.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on the situation of refugees and asylum seekers in the union because women are particularly vulnerable in the context of migration and asylum. this is a reality we cannot deny, especially at a time when flows to the eu are at their highest. women who flee war in their own countries should not be subjected to physical and gender-based violence in the host countries. in this resolution we stress the need to adopt measures which take into account the particular vulnerability of women and ensure that their rights are respected at all stages of the procedure. i support the emphasis in particular on the exposure of smugglers to exploitation and the need to redouble efforts in police and judicial cooperation. we also stress the importance of giving women individual rights and a legal status independent of that of their spouses, as well as appropriate legal assistance. finally, as regards the social integration of refugees in the host country, we ask the member states to pay particular attention to women here too.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that we are facing the worst ever refugee crisis in the history of europe. in fact, the level of migration to europe is very high which means that the scale of human tragedy is unmeasurable. it is not a secret that in this critical humanitarian situation, human trafficking is on the rise. smugglers from sub-saharan africa to scandinavia indiscriminately abuse refugees’ human rights, disappear with families’ life savings, leave boats on purpose to stop anyone returning to shore, or sell the most desperate people to organised crime groups that which are involved in drug and organ trafficking. unfortunately, all along the migration routes, the most vulnerable victims are women and children. therefore, the eu should do whatever it takes to protect the most vulnerable. we cannot allow women and children to be treated and exchanged like slaves. we should provide all along the migration routes to europe safe spaces for women and children, vital services, family tracing and protection. we should save lives rather than facilitate violence, exploitation and trafficking.
in writing. the eu is undoubtedly going through the most serious crisis since its creation. thousands of people come to the old continent in the hope of finding international protection. but we can't put them in the same denominator. women and men who leave their homes to escape war face different risks and are vulnerable in different ways. it is important to note that according to the latest figures, women and children represented more than half of the asylum seekers in the eu in 2016. the risky journey to europe is often accompanied by various forms of violence. i think we can't turn a blind eye to their suffering and their grief. it is in this spirit that i supported the ep's draft resolution calling for european measures to protect refugee women. i strongly support the position that eu migration and asylum policy must have a mechanism to guarantee their safety and protection. the fight against smuggling will only be successful if we ensure safe and secure routes to the eu.
mr president, madam high representative, yes, progress has been made in syria. humanitarian access, the cessation of hostilities are important steps forward. but beware, the situation remains fragile, as you said, which requires all our mobilization. i have two comments and one question. my first comment: on this international women's day, the un special envoy staffan de mistura has reminded us that syrian women are an integral part of a sustainable solution. they have the right to participate and we have the duty to ensure their participation in the peace process. in general, we know how crucial it is that the inter-syrian dialogue is as inclusive as possible. secondly, if the absence of direct military involvement by the european union has excluded us from the negotiations on the cessation of hostilities, this must be our strength in the political negotiations. in the case of syria, as in the middle east more generally, the european union must have the ambition to be a balancing force and we thank you, madam high representative, for all the efforts you are making in this direction. my question is not in urgency, but i think our strength must be anticipation. our common ambition is to hold elections. how can we anticipate the difficulties of organizing such an election, with more than 11 million people displaced in syria and neighboring countries? do the host countries fully support this objective? (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". mr president, i think that in this situation we must remember the message that the high representative has given us: beware, the situation can deteriorate very quickly. so let's be very careful about accusations, and let's be very careful about judgments. one of the great lessons to be learned from what is happening in syria is that only if we all together, together - the entire international community - take responsibility with a very concrete vision, will we be able to achieve lasting peace and stability in that region.
a question asked by raising a blue card. ladies and gentlemen, do you not think that this agreement is an unacceptable collaboration in favour of turkey and that in fact the european bureaucrats in brussels are agreeing to pay a racket, a ransom to mr erdogan, and that in fact the european union is acknowledging that it cannot protect its borders alone and is giving turkey these weapons in its hands? and in fact, this is a huge hypocrisy, because turkey is obviously not a european country and has no place in the european union.
madam president, commissioner, first of all, thank you for this report on the implementation of the european agenda on migration. i welcome the commitment of president juncker's team since the beginning of his mandate. however, we know that there is still much work to be done, both inside and outside the community. i would like to raise two questions first. first, the establishment of hotspots. we know all 11 hotspots are down. what are the main obstacles to rapid progress? if the blockades are political, should we give even more time for national decisions to be taken? putting off until tomorrow what we have to do today is making what is important today an emergency tomorrow. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom, the united kingdom and the united states on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. since then, we have had very little news about the establishment of the centre, which is a concrete element of the external dimension of our migration policy. we must use this project as a means of working with third countries, particularly in africa. i would also like to make two comments on the external dimension of our migration policy. i am drawing attention to this because i believe that if we do more about the causes outside, we will not have to deal with the consequences inside. first, readmission agreements: what timetable, what country? secondly, lebanon and jordan: we must continue to support these two countries, which are key elements for the sustainable management of the migration issue. today more than ever, there is a need for financial promises to be translated into concrete projects, and we must remain attentive to them.
commissioners, we will continue to support you in resolving the crisis, but i must admit that the previous debate on syria and now, do not give me much hope. the european union's successful policy is built on two main pillars: leadership in conflict resolution and management of the refugee crisis. our policy has recently focused on the second pillar. do we have a holistic immigration policy today? the answer is no. moreover, the commission's latest proposals regionalise the problem of dealing with refugee flows. now greece is on your proposals agenda, and then what? the new emergency. at the same time, double standards are being displayed. all your proposals are about protecting schengen. today, schengen is the magic word, but what about the other countries on the external border? their destiny is a buffer zone and a huge refugee camp. i assure you, this will not make europe any safer.
commissioners, the european union is in a critical situation and a large number of member states continue to abdicate the obligation of shared responsibility. we've been saying for months that we need to act now. unfortunately, we don't start implementing the agreements that we make, and as a result, the division is getting bigger. the commission's decision to allocate €700 million to respond to europe's growing humanitarian needs during this refugee crisis will be of key importance for greece and especially for the countries of the western balkans. the implementation of an action plan with turkey will also play a role. it is necessary to establish a european border and coast guard immediately, of which bulgaria and romania must be an integral part. otherwise, they will become the buffer zone of the european union. alongside our efforts to restore peace in the middle east, we must also move towards the immediate replacement of the dublin regulation and successfully implement a new, single european asylum procedure.
member of the commission.– madam president, in general i would say that we all agree in this room, with only some exceptions, as far as the basic lines we follow in order to address this unprecedented situation. yesterday’s summit was a necessary step, although not yet conclusive since next week’s summit is even more important. everybody has now had their responsibilities put before them and everybody will be held accountable. what should prevail, as is our common understanding in this room, is tangible solidarity on all aspects of the issues discussed by the leaders yesterday. solidarity is the basis, the main pillar of the commission’s proposals. the refugee crisis is a catalyst for the destiny of the european union and i remind you here of the myth of sisyphus, which you all know. now put europe in the place of sisyphus. yes, europe is carrying a heavy rock on its shoulders, but it is absolutely necessary that all member states help the eu to carry the rock to the top of the hill, and do not allow the myth to be confirmed and see the rock rolling down again. it is our duty not to let europe backtrack. the tendency easily to adopt a populist and simplistic rhetoric is seen in the election results in various member states. in this way, only extremism, nationalism and xenophobia gain ground. this is detrimental to the ideal and values of europe. let me repeat this: we will not change our strategy and we call on everybody to uphold it. we need large-scale relocations, effective return of those who have no right to stay and, of course, secure common external borders. for this all member states share responsibility. as member states share the responsibility together with the commission to safeguard schengen, and i hope that, even if some politicians do not realise the symbolic and political value of schengen and their duty, they will nevertheless consider the economic cost of non-schengen. i will not repeat by views and commitments as regards schengen; you all know them. the migratory pressure is of such scale that no member state could face it alone and we all know this. we need immediate support for the ongoing frontex operations and also a swift agreement on the european borders and coastguard proposal, so that none can sit and wait until things get better on their own. they will not if we do not all engage. this is why i also welcome the engagement of our partners: of the unhcr, as i stressed this morning, and of nato, which will help us finally stop the activities of smugglers. i remind you, we have declared a war against smugglers, with key third countries, like turkey. yes, we need turkey to face this global crisis. i know that there are second thoughts, maybe some doubts, but we should never forget that turkey is a key player in the area and a partner of europe in our efforts. but we will not act against our own rules and this will be clarified during the coming days that will lead us to the european council. return can only happen in full accordance with the european union’s and international laws. we also need to complete our strategy. resettlement is our immediate priority. as i had said already in my hearing, we need to build legal ways for those who need to come to europe. very soon, as promised, we will reveal our plans on the dublin reform. i share your views. we need a fair burden-sharing system, including on legal migration. in a world of mobility we cannot have an eu without a proper economic migration policy, taking into account global developments, and then cooperation with third countries and, of course, coordination with the economic sector. last, but very important, a more coordinated policy on integration is what will complete this picture. i would like to say to the members of this parliament that your interventions were very useful to me and i thank you for that and, as i always do, i am taking them very seriously into consideration in view of the upcoming developments. it was in this very house that our policy was born. it is in this very house that our policy will be defended in the name of european values, in the name of european democracy.
in writing. the implementation of the european agenda on migration is indeed showing progress, but the results are modest in the end. i am convinced that the agreement with turkey will allow the european union to fulfil its humanitarian obligations. on the other hand, i am firmly against the confusion of two fundamentally different issues: the solution of the refugee crisis and the negotiations with turkey for eu membership and the visa waiver. effective cooperation with our neighbors is only part of the solution. member states should follow a common policy and not respond to the refugee crisis through unilateral actions such as arbitrary border closures. otherwise, greece will become a huge refugee camp. this common policy should also include countries outside the schengen area. it is unacceptable that bulgaria, romania and croatia should remain outside the scope of the new border guard agency. the idea of a united and united europe, which we so cherish and defend so zealously, is thus completely emptied of its content!
ladies and gentlemen, i think we could have achieved a better result with this agreement, because we should be making laws simpler and clearer, not burdening citizens and businesses with bureaucracy. in this context, the agreed annual burden study is an important tool for identifying and monitoring the results of the european institutions' efforts to avoid and reduce over-regulation and administrative burdens, with a focus on smes. it is necessary to distinguish clearly between the burden imposed by the different commission proposals and the acts of the individual member states. in this way, brussels is no longer to blame for the various problems caused by measures taken by the member states. the public consultation in legislative planning will help to pay more attention to the impact of new laws on competitiveness. the annual burden review and impact assessments of draft legislation will establish a check on the impact of the legislation, in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises. i hope that the new rules and commitments adopted in this agreement will be implemented correctly and will contribute to a truly better, modern and high-quality european legislation.
madam president, i think it is worthwhile remembering what president juncker actually said at the outset of the commission back in october 2014 and i quote: ‘i want europe to be dedicated to being triple—a on social issues as much as it is to being triple—a in the financial and economic sense.’ now my question to madam thyssen is this: does she really believe that this commission over this period of work has been equally committed, dedicated, to social issues as compared to macroeconomic and financial issues. in your speech last june in luxembourg, madam thyssen, you gave a resounding ‘yes’ to the question is there a new start for a social europe. well, unfortunately, i feel that the actual answer is a no less definite ‘no’, for the simple reason that the main drive of the commission, embedded in the european semester, is austerity. there is a consistent pressure to arrive at so-called structural and budget equilibrium, and social aspects and consequences have taken a decidedly second place.
member of the commission.– madam president, members ate to vote on the text of the directive on procedural safeguards for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. this directive is particularly important as it gives specific rights to children involved in criminal proceedings in the european union and provides for overarching protection at all stages of these proceedings. children are particularly vulnerable in criminal proceedings due to their young age and immaturity. around 1 million children in the eu are estimated to come into contact with the police and judiciary every year. they need therefore the highest possible protection. this directive is an important step forward in the construction of an area of justice in the european union. today there are large disparities in the level of protection offered in the european union applicable to children in criminal proceedings in the member states. in some cases, the level of protection is insufficient compared with the well-recognised international standards. the directive, once adopted, will significantly strengthen the procedural safeguards for children when confronted with criminal justice in the eu throughout all the proceedings. moreover, the directive will also contribute to the development of an effective model of juvenile justice. the new rules will ensure the fair trial rights for children during criminal proceedings; they will also prevent children from re-offending and will foster their social integration. i would like to congratulate and thank the parliament rapporteur, mrs chinnici, for her remarkable work and personal dedication on this file, which made an agreement on this directive possible after long and difficult negotiations. the outcome of the negotiations is a very well balanced text which endorses the principle laid down in article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights that ‘the child’s best interests shall always be a primary consideration’. notably, children will benefit from assistance by a lawyer in serious and complex cases and every time they are in detention. deprivation of liberty cannot be imposed as a sanction unless the child has been assisted by a lawyer, at least during the hearings before the court. children will also benefit from other safeguards such as assistance by their parents or other appropriate persons. they will also have the right to protection of privacy, including the possibility of having court hearings held in the absence of the public. furthermore, children will also have the right to an individual assessment to make sure that their specific needs concerning protection, education and social integration are fully taken into account. finally, the commission is also very satisfied that the text foresees that children should be kept separately from adults in police custody and pre-trial detention, unless this is not in the best interests of the child. this directive will give a strong signal that the european union strongly cares about children, the most vulnerable persons involved in criminal proceedings. therefore, i strongly encourage you to vote in favour of this directive today.
on behalf of the ecr group. i congratulate my colleague kinnichi and the shadow rapporteurs who worked on this dossier. the issue of procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings is of particular importance because of the varying levels of protection in the member states and even the absence of such protection in some of them. some 1 086 000 children a year face criminal proceedings, representing 12% of all europeans facing criminal justice. on behalf of the shadow rapporteur, the honourable mr kirkhope, i would like to stress that the protection of children must be a priority for society. they are the most vulnerable of its species and need special protection. we need to be able to find solutions to legal loopholes in systems, taking into account the member states' legal systems, while creating european standards that ensure the protection of children's rights within the union. i invite member states to ensure that the protection of children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings is implemented as a priority. member states should adapt their legal systems to better protect accused and suspected children.
in writing. according to european commission data, 12% of all criminal proceedings in the eu involve children; at the same time, different practices in proceedings in the member states are observed, such as the existence of specialised criminal divisions, training of lawyers to work with children, and protection during interrogations. i support the agreed directive on common minimum standards for the rights of children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, because these measures will lead to clearer and harmonised standards for criminal proceedings against children. in particular, i find the right to individual assessment to be a very important achievement, because no criminal proceedings are the same, especially when children are involved. the right to legal representation is also extremely important - everyone is equal before the law, and children in particular should have the opportunity for adequate protection and representation before the police and the courts. ladies and gentlemen, i believe the agreed guidelines take the best interests of the child into account. i also believe that it will facilitate mutual recognition of judicial decisions and cross-border police cooperation. these are important steps towards a pan-european judicial area that will create common rules for all member states.
every year, this institution sets the tone and direction for the european budget. that is the central task before us tonight, despite the artistry of some of our colleagues. now is the time of year when we need to look up from the numbers and the graphs and look at the big goals ahead of us: youth, employment, innovation, business, the creative economy. now is the time of year when we also need to define the properties of a budget that is results-oriented so that it can take on the next big challenge without piling up unpaid bills, have simpler rules, more own revenues, certainly be more sustainable. this is no time to be hearing that the money spent on a youth bail is wasted on the wind. unfortunately, that's exactly the kind of amendment i read. but it's time to take concrete steps. let's increase the budget for erasmus for young entrepreneurs by 55 million by 2020 is not serious. let us also develop the capacity of member states to successfully apply for both the juncker plan and horizon 2020. we can do a lot more with both programs than we're doing right now. let's also talk about cohesion policy beyond 2020, since we require member states to plan so far ahead. and last but not least, the budget we set today is the face of the union we will see tomorrow, so it is up to us what we leave to our children.
a question asked by raising a blue card. dear colleague, don't you think that negotiating with the islamist and dictator erdogan, agreeing to his blackmail, is a disgrace and a disgrace for the european commission? don't you think this agreement is an unacceptable collaboration in favor of turkey, another grave political mistake by incompetent bureaucrats in brussels who invited millions of illegal migrants into our homes, then completely failed with the allocation of quotas and now agree to pay a racket, a ransom to the dictator erdogan? in fact, by this agreement, the european union is acknowledging that it cannot protect its borders. the ideas of visa liberalisation and new chapters, the payment of billions of ransoms are, in my opinion, pure political suicide for the european... (speaker is interrupted by the president)
the turkey deal is a suicidally bad deal. we lie to them that we will admit them into the european union, they lie to us that they will stop the immigrants. there is no chance that erdogan's totalitarian regime will become part of europe. turkey is in asia, not europe. islam is not part of european culture, of the european continent. as a journalist i ask: why did none of the european leaders say to davutoglu's eyes that the brutal attack on the newspaper zaman was a crime against humanity? the ghost of sultan erdogan is haunting europe and other semi-totalitarian european countries like bulgaria and hungary. the weak and helpless european union has turned erdogan from the creator of the islamic state problem into our savior. mrs. merkel's mistake will cost more than money. instead of protecting our external borders, we pay the bandits to protect us and encourage them to trample democracy.
mr president, regarding the overall development of relations between the eu and turkey, we should take turkey not as a temporary, but rather as a strategic, reliable and long-term partner. in the process of cooperation our goal should be to convince our turkish counterparts of our sincerity and unreserved support for the development of mutually beneficial cooperation. in our interconnected world, constantly threatened by multiple crises, the only way to survive is to maintain very close friendly relations and work together to counter the challenges. the role of turkey in resolving the refugee crisis is indispensable. to assure security in the region adjacent to the eu, strengthening cooperation with turkey is of particular interest to us. from that point of view, it is not productive to concentrate our attention just on the promise, for now, of handing out money. we need to start implementing the eu-turkey joint action plan as soon as possible in order to decrease the pressure on european borders. finally, it is extremely important for us as europeans to talk less and work out a unified position with turkey as to how we respond to the challenges. europe has to export security, otherwise we are in no time going to import insecurity.
s&ds) council president tusk, on monday, declared an end to illegal immigration more to reassure european citizens than to tell the truth. the agreement with turkey will not stop people fleeing war and misery, nor will it restrict their entry into europe. i don't know what you'll decide at the next council, but while we're having these discussions, thousands of people are drowning in the mud of idomeni, and the countries of the so-called "balkan road" are slamming doors in their faces. and is the council not aware that the policy of fire-fighting solves nothing, because after greece and the balkan route there will be other routes - bulgaria, albania. how do you imagine this exchange of one for one syrian, with what human factor, with what financial and administrative factor? what are the guarantees on the turkish side for the crossing of human trafficking to all european borders, since the country, in the eyes of the authorities, is developing a parallel income economy that does not restrict but stimulates the canal trade. these are just some of the questions that are on the agenda for both the commission and the council, and we have been waiting for their answers for a long, long time.
in writing. turkey does not meet any accession criteria and cannot and should not open any negotiating chapters because it crushes freedom of speech, beats and kills journalists, commits genocide against its own people and ethnic cleansing in syria and iraq. turkey also funds, organizes, trains, arms, treats and trades with perhaps the most vicious and inhuman terrorist organization of our time - the islamic state. in addition, turkey is illegally waging hostilities, invading and violating the territorial borders and national sovereignty of two neighbouring states the syrian arab republic and the republic of iraq. one more thing, turkey is preparing to illegally annex and occupy the territory of a sovereign neighboring state. does this remind you of crimea? let us not forget that turkey has for decades occupied completely illegally part of the territory of an eu member state, namely cyprus, has not borne any responsibility for the ethnic cleansing of greek cypriots, still keeps at least 30 thousand occupation corps there and does not allow access to cypriot naval vessels and aircraft to the water, airspace, ports and airports of the so-called northern cyprus.
in writing. it's been five years since syria was at war. for two years now, those living in conflict have had a 'roadmap' to europe. but for only a few months, europe has had a roadmap for securing its borders. the european union was not created to function as a crisis tool. that is why we must anticipate crises and prevent them from becoming uncontrollable forces. in april last year, we started taking 'emergency' measures to deal with the refugee flow. but the threat to free movement within our continent was also clear a long time ago. the commission's roadmap for a return to a strong schengen system is necessary but far too late. a common european border police to guard the external borders will be operational by august 2016 and internal borders are not expected to be opened until the end of the year. this time we must act quickly and decisively, to beat the deadlines, not delay them. another key measure that does not receive enough attention is the fight against traffickers. closing our borders is not a solution in itself, as the channels for human trafficking are rapidly being redirected. with the closure of the western balkans route, bulgaria and hungary become potential destinations for these channels, which we must stop at all costs.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i supported this codification as it does not contain any problematic or controversial text. the case concerned the merger of existing texts without altering the substance of the legal acts.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i supported this codification as it does not contain any problematic or controversial text. the case concerned the merger of existing texts without altering the substance of the legal acts.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and andorra on the exchange of information on citizens' financial data according to the new requirements of the administrative cooperation directive and the 2014 oecd standards. the agreement, which will enter into force at the beginning of 2017, is compatible with existing european legislation without imposing double standards. i believe that this agreement is a step in the right direction to combat financial fraud and tax evasion, which seriously damage the eu's coffers.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i supported this report because the issue of procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings is of paramount importance. some 1 086 000 children a year face criminal proceedings, representing 12% of all europeans facing criminal justice, and legislation in the different eu member states varies. common standards for implementation are needed. protecting children should be a priority for our society. they are the most vulnerable of its species and need special protection. we need to be able to find solutions to the legal gaps in our systems, taking into account the member states' legal systems, while creating european standards that ensure the protection of children's rights within the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it sets common minimum standards throughout the european union on the rights of children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings and subjects of european arrest warrant proceedings. strengthening the rights of persons in criminal proceedings is a priority under the stockholm programme. i believe that, given the vulnerability of persons under 18 years of age involved in criminal proceedings, their rights should be fully protected at all stages of criminal proceedings within the union. in this regard, it is important that the adoption of this legislative proposal ensures mandatory access to a lawyer for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. another key element of the directive is the obligation to provide specialised training for magistrates, law enforcement and prison officers, lawyers and others working with children. the establishment of minimum standards is therefore necessary to establish an effective standard of protection for children and to enhance mutual trust and judicial cooperation.
in writing. ‒ in reality, a proposal for a directive on procedural safeguards for children who are suspected or accused in criminal proceedings is more than needed. children’s mentality is weak and can be easily upset, therefore we should protect them. in order for this to happen, member states should implement the directive that states that suspects and accused children are presumed innocent until proven guilty under the law. furthermore, the directive on procedural safeguards for children who are suspected or accused will enhance the right to a fair trial in criminal proceedings by laying down minimum rules and presumption of innocence and the right to be present at the trial.
in writing. i supported the proposal for a directive on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. i believe that as part of the eu's programme on the rights of the child, it will promote children's rights also within other legal instruments. the number of children involved in legal proceedings in the eu is estimated to exceed one million each year. at the same time, there are wide differences in the treatment of them in the member states. not all countries have specialised juvenile courts and only a small number have prosecution services. i voted for the directive because i believe it will succeed in imposing a set of rules that will balance the differences in the different legal systems of the member states. i believe it is our moral duty to provide maximum protection for children at every stage of the criminal proceedings. we need to remind ourselves more often that they are our future.
in writing. – effective human rights protection is fundamental to any concept of fairness in the criminal justice system. fairness, however, is relative: it may require different levels of protection in different circumstances. children require special measures of protection to take account of their particular vulnerability and needs. according to the commission, approximately 1 million children face criminal justice proceedings in the eu each year. i welcome the clear standards protecting children’s rights and hence i voted in favour of the report.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget because i believe that it does not reflect the requirements of the european taxpayer. i believe that the guidelines for the preparation of the budget should be linked to the reduction of redundant expenditure and the tightening of financial controls. the report focuses more on the capacity of the european budget to cope with the crises facing the union, including the wave of migration and refugees, the high level of unemployment and the slow pace of economic growth. i do not think that the report pays enough attention to the areas of real added value for the eu. i do not think that the overall budget needs to be increased, its use needs to be better focused and oriented towards achieving the right objectives.
in writing. ‒ i support the report as a whole, as it underlines the importance of the youth employment initiative and identifies it as the union's priority objective for jobs and growth, as well as the commitment to further funding this programme with a view to its expansion. the report finds that despite initial delays in the implementation of this initiative and the continued delay in the designation of bodies of the youth employment initiative operational programmes in many member states, the current implementation figures show full absorption capacity. the report also stresses the need for a thorough reform of the union's own resources system. however, i believe that the eu budget for the refugee crisis should not be at the expense of investment, nor should the budget be used to force member states to respond to the refugee crisis. it would be a mistake to create a mechanism through the eu budget to influence countries in a similar way.
in writing. – the report highlights parliament’s political priorities for next year’s budget that emphasises an important element, which i am fully supporting in my mandate as mep – boosting investments for growth, competitiveness and job creation. i believe that strategic investment is crucial for maintaining the european economy as a key player in the world market. investment and support, in particular to smes and individual entrepreneurs, is vital for the future of european market competitiveness and growth, and that is why i support the guidelines for the 2017 budget.
ecr), in writing. ‒ i supported mrs hübner's report on the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking. i don't think it's comprehensive, and there's a lot more to be done, but it's a good step in the right direction and it should be supported. the bureaucracy is big, there are still laws being worked on that create more problems and don't solve the problems of the mainly ordinary citizen and create difficulties for small and medium-sized businesses instead of revising existing legislation whose modernisation would be the best solution. one of my main tasks here in the european parliament during this mandate is and will continue to be to monitor all legislative proposals that affect smes, their functioning and successful survival, because they are the backbone of the economy and the welfare of all of us depends on them.
in writing. i voted in favour of adopting the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making because it provides a good basis for building and developing more open and transparent relations between the eu institutions in the interest of the citizens of the union. i believe that the renegotiation and updating of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement in line with the 'better law-making' agenda is necessary to take account of the new legislative environment created by the treaty of lisbon, to consolidate current best practices. the new interinstitutional agreement ensures that eu legislation is focused on areas where it has the highest added value for european citizens, that it is as effective as possible in achieving the general objectives of union policy, that over-regulation and administrative burdens for citizens, administrations and businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), are avoided. the ep's call for the wording of impact assessments to involve the three institutions more fully in the inclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and competitiveness tests in their impact assessments is important in this regard.
ppe), in written form. ‒ on 9 march, my colleagues in the european parliament and i approved the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking by 516 votes to 92, with 95 abstentions. the agreement between parliament, the council and the commission aims to improve the way the european union produces legislation. the tools for improving legislative action at european level are clearly identified: 1) systematic impact assessments and consultations with the public, experts and all stakeholders; 2) reduction of administrative burden and so-called over-regulation for citizens and businesses (especially for small and medium-sized businesses); and 3) more transparency and coordination in interinstitutional negotiations. i welcome the commitment of the three institutions to cooperate in order to modernise, simplify and ensure greater transparency in the tripartite negotiation process.
in writing. – planning, quality and transparency are essential elements of law-making process. i fully support the agreement between the eu institutions to clarify and communicate better to the public and the media how decisions are made at european level. a large part of my work and commitment as an mep is to facilitate the information flow between eu level and my member state, so that both citizens and businesses are aware of the benefits of the eu.
ecr), in writing. - i voted against the authorisation to open negotiations with philip morris international to extend the tobacco agreement. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the application of the meo test. the european commission does not provide parliament with sufficient information on the objectives achieved. there's also been a delay in our requests for such information. since 2015, parliament has been trying to obtain the technical evaluation of this agreement, but the commission only published it in february this year. i also do not support the fact that the budget of olaf is partly financed by the funds received from the annual payments from the tobacco industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the parliament's decision to call on the commission not to renew the smuggling and counterfeiting agreements with the tobacco giants because the existing deals were in exchange for the suspension of legal proceedings against them for billions of dollars in lost customs duties due to the illegal trade in cigarettes. although over $2 billion has been recovered in this way, the illicit trade in cigarettes has not only not stopped but is costing the eu more than €10 billion, along with a sharp increase in smuggling of other types, notably 'cheap white' cigarettes. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principle of proportionality, the efforts of the commission and the member states should be directed towards strictly implementing the effective toolbox of the directive on the accelerated deployment of interoperable tracking systems for cigarettes and tobacco products in the eu, including those of the companies concerned. timely ratification by member states of the protocol to the who framework convention on tobacco control is also crucial to ensure the necessary traceability of cigarettes at international level.
mr president, madam minister, the situation in eritrea and our relations with that country perfectly illustrate the challenge for the european union, on the one hand, of the coherence of its policies on development, human rights and migration and, on the other hand, of the ability of our instruments to serve not only as instruments of pressure but also as a lever to finally encourage the entry of that country on a possible path leading to democratization and respect for human rights. two comments on this: let us make better use of the european development fund. this parliament has already called for the national indicative programme, particularly in the governance area, to be able to converge towards the founding principles of the european union's foreign policy, but also towards the foundations of a more open and stable eritrea. secondly, in the current migration context, knowing that eritrean women represented the second largest contingent of people arriving on italian shores in 2014 after syrians, the european development fund, the khartoum process and our relations within the framework of the cotonou agreement must be better used to find a solution first and foremost in favour of eritreans and their fundamental rights. the causes of irregular migration must be tackled, and in this respect eritrea is a concrete example of how we can act.
on behalf of the ecr group. thanks to mr weigl for his comprehensive work on the report on macedonia and his commitment to resolving the political crisis in the country. i want to state categorically that both i as a bulgarian and the ecr group support the aspiration of brotherly macedonia to its membership in the european union. but local authorities should know that each candidate country is judged on its merits, and the speed and quality of the reforms needed will determine its accession timetable. there are reasonable doubts that macedonia is in a political crisis, that reforms are stalled, that the judiciary and political authorities are corrupt, and that the media is censored. the rights of some national communities like the bulgarian are constantly violated. this is not the progress we expect, and steps must be taken in this direction. i have no doubt and no dispute that the macedonian authorities should stop justifying themselves with the name problem and start solving the country's political problems. a step forward would be for the government to recognize the existence of a bulgarian community and guarantee its rights and freedoms, to make them full citizens of the state, to stop falsifying our common history and to stop using the language of hate. it is high time to see progress in the accession process, but this can be done through improving good neighbourly relations with the eu member states, which goes hand in hand with the necessary internal reforms. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. my dear colleague, my country, the republic of bulgaria, was the first to recognize the independence of the republic of macedonia under that very name. we are aware that there is a dispute that some of the greek colleagues do not accept the name and argue that it should be called the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. but my country has recognized this country under that name and i am fully entitled to use it with all due respect for the feelings of our friends in the hellenic republic.
europe will not be strong and secure without the western balkan countries, including macedonia, becoming part of our union. but i'm not going to talk about the migration crisis, but about problems that have been around for decades, at least since 1944, in these places. in this report i have again supported the call for the elimination of hate speech in textbooks, for obstacles and discrimination against citizens with bulgarian identity, joint celebrations of common historical events, restoration and maintenance of bulgarian symbols and monuments in the republic of macedonia. these recommendations have been a constant feature of the reports over the past few years. it is inexplicable to me that provocations continue in this direction, which do not lead to overcoming the accumulated distrust between neighbors, especially the legacy of the communist regime. i'll give her a fresh example. i was contacted by the grandson of the prominent bulgarian writer and patriot dimitar talev, who reported that two of his grandfather's books, the iron lamp and the praspan bells, had been published in skopje in violation of copyright and with altered content. the writer is declared "macedonian" and the notions of "bulgarian" and "bulgarian" are removed or replaced with "macedonian" and "macedonian". i sincerely wish the macedonian citizens and the republic of macedonia every success on their path to european membership, especially in this difficult situation, and i believe that only this european membership and integration can overcome these abhorrent practices of the past.
thank you, mr. weigel, for your balanced report. almost a year ago, i said from this podium that the integration of the western balkans is not because of their political elites, but because of the civil societies of these young democracies. unfortunately, macedonia is dangerously divided today, and this political crisis could very quickly undermine the country's european path. we must not forget the crisis of the endless flow of refugees, which can only be solved with the help of the european union, not with the use of tear gas. however, the european union must not give up. it is strategically important to keep the country's european dream alive and the seventh consecutive recommendation in the report on the opening of negotiations is precisely in this direction. i want to call on all political forces to hold fair and free elections, according to all european and international standards, and remind them that it is their duty to serve the citizens of macedonia, including the minorities. only then will they be able to restore confidence in the institutions and start the necessary reforms that will revive the country's integration drive.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr tannock, for his good cooperation. we have repeatedly identified montenegro as the 'successful example' in the western balkans. in recent months, we have witnessed protests and violence in the streets following the vote of no confidence in the government. no success story is guaranteed. freedom and democracy must be worked on every day. after last week's failed vote of no confidence, the opposition is calling for the dissolution of parliament and new elections. the country's euro-atlantic orientation is called into question and a reorientation towards russia is called for. the report supports the full alignment of the country's foreign policy with the common security and defence policy. montenegro can serve as an example for other countries in the region, such as macedonia and serbia, to work together with the european union in this direction. we must support montenegro's european orientation so that it remains on the path of euro-atlantic development and does not allow its citizens to fall victim to pressure from third countries.
montenegro is a shining example of successful reforms and macroeconomic stability. the progress the country has made in the past year is a beacon of hope for the region. it is no coincidence that 22 negotiating chapters have already been opened, including chapters 23 and 24 on fundamental rights and justice, and two have been closed in good time. montenegro is a pillar of regional stability, and its relations with its neighbours deserve our admiration. its foreign policy is fully aligned with the foreign and defence policy of the european union, and it is only logical that nato invited the country to join the alliance. of course, the progress made brings additional responsibilities. the government should strengthen the role of the national parliament and continue the fight against corruption. new laws on european standards for minorities and on the legal status of religious communities are needed to ensure their participation in the country's socio-political life.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, a stable banking system means growth, jobs and stability. recently, we have seen the largest financial institutions in some member states experience financial turbulence. this shows that we still have a lot of work to do. this report sets the right tone and direction for reforms in the banking sector. importantly, it calls for further risk reduction measures, which will prevent moral hazard. we clearly state that if the costs for bank failures and insolvencies are to be mutualised, the risk must be contained to the maximum extent possible. i would also underline that risk reduction should not be seen as a vague concept; there are concrete steps that can be taken. this is why we encourage the commission to propose such measures, and the member states to implement existing rules. the consolidation of the banking sector must come with legal certainty. this is why we also ask for clarification of the existing maximum distributable amount (mda) legislation, making it clear banks need to comply with both level i and level ii capital requirements. but the key role of this report is providing a clear incentive for reducing sovereign exposure and a balanced approach towards the third pillar of the banking union. with this, we have made a strong statement for a prudent and forward-looking system. having achieved an overwhelming majority in committee, i hope that we will vote in favour of this report today. with this, we would set the beginning to an important dialogue that would help us build a banking union in the best shape possible.
on behalf of the alde group. like all countries in the region, kazakhstan is a country with a rich history, having been part of the soviet union for many years. our relationship with kazakhstan is of particular importance, given that it was the first country in central asia to sign a cooperation agreement with the european union, resulting in significant joint projects. and although it has been seeking its democratic identity for 25 years, we cannot ignore the fact that the political system is showing signs of oligarchism. moreover, in recent years we have seen a deterioration in the overall respect for democratic standards, human rights and fundamental freedoms in kazakhstan. the arrest of journalists and bloggers for doing their jobs is an act that the european union must resolutely oppose. in this regard, i call on the kazakh authorities to act in accordance with their international obligations and commitments to the csto, to refrain from using politically motivated charges against critical journalists, independent media and to release immediately citizens who are unjustly detained. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. i totally agree with you. kazakhstan has to fulfill all its commitments, all international standards, respect human rights and freedoms, and then we can enter into a deeper conversation with them.
author. madam president, commissioner, i am pleased that we have on the agenda an emergency resolution on the pre-electoral situation in the democratic republic of congo. the next few months are crucial for the future of the drc and the great lakes region as a whole. i would like to emphasize three aspects covered by the joint text. first, as regards the electoral process itself, i insist on the implementation of the recommendations of the 2011 election observation mission and the 2014 monitoring mission, which i had the honour to lead. it is more than necessary to hold the president and the government to account. an electoral calendar, a budget and, above all, a public commitment to respect the constitution without delay are necessary to avoid the burning of the country. secondly, on the security front, i welcome the renewal of the mandate of monusco and i support the extension of its powers to include the protection of civilians. thirdly, the regional dimension: the european union and the african union must do everything possible to maintain political dialogue with and between the countries of the region in order to avoid any escalation of tensions at the regional level.
in writing.– unfortunately, the political situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) is very disturbing. the country’s fragile young democracy is under serious threat. according to reports from various sources, authorities in the drc are trying to break the constitution and to cancel the upcoming presidential elections in november 2016. in order to do so, congolese security and intelligence officials have initiated a severe crackdown on peaceful activists, political leaders and ordinary civilians who oppose peacefully unconstitutional attempts of ruling by president kabila, seeking to amend the constitution in order to stay beyond his constitutionally mandated two-term limit. as a leading democratic power and human rights champion, the eu should urge the congolese authorities to respect their own constitution, to guarantee the holding of transparent, credible and inclusive elections, to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. at a deeper level, the eu should expand cooperation with the un’s mission in the country (monusco) to further protect civilians and consolidate peace. undoubtedly, only stable democracy provides the natural environment for the protection of human rights and peace, and therefore we cannot allow ourselves to lose it in the drc.
mr president, i would like on behalf of the ppe to put an oral amendment to paragraph 3, first part, after the first sentence: ‘deplores external pressure attempts related to montenegro’s integration into euro-atlantic organisations’.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia marks the beginning of a new era in relations between eu and tunisia, a new approach in the euro-mediterranean political region. it has been clear that the tunisian economy needs support in particular after last year’s terrorist attack which severely damaged the tourist industry (tunisia’s main economic sector). therefore, exceptional and temporary free access to the european market will really benefit the tunisian economy. last but not least, the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia will facilitate negotiations between the union and tunisia on the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta).
in writing. – since 2011 tunisia has been а country in successful transition towards democracy. eu support during the period when the region is still very unstable, and the strengthening of democratic reforms in tunisia are key. a lack of jobs and opportunities was one of the main reasons for massive popular demonstrations in 2011 and many of the problems are present still today. economic growth will be embedded in rules through a trade agreement, which should enforce incentives for further economic and institutional reforms. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because i believe that limiting the use of antibiotics in agriculture is imperative. measures must be taken because the health of the citizens is paramount to me. this, of course, must be done gradually, and it cannot be done all at once, because the spread of disease in this area could also be threatened. the use of antimicrobials is a great alternative, and their manufacturers and researchers should be encouraged. i am glad that this report provides such incentives, such as extending the period of protection for the technical documentation of new medicines.
in writing. ‒ the report on the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use is closely linked to the report on veterinary medicinal products, which i supported. in this case, we are talking about details at a technical level because of the decision taken by the commission to bring the rules on veterinary medicinal products under one regulation, replacing the existing directive. this requires the separation of medicines for animals and those for humans under different legislation and leads to the vote on this report, which i supported. i can emphasize again that the health of the citizens is always the primary consideration in choosing my position.
in writing. ‒ i support this initiative because i agree that the commission needs to tackle these issues because of the importance of 'big data' in our society today. we must insist on greater clarity and transparency when it comes to the passage of sensitive key areas such as those described in the text. with the latest proposals from the european commission in particular, there are more developments to be expected. it is essential that we can work on a solid basis to avoid ineffective legislation. we must therefore carefully evaluate all issues to find appropriate solutions.
in writing. ‒ we are currently living in a time of the fourth industrial revolution. the fourth industrial revolution has been characterised by the advance of technology and availability of vast amounts of data. looking from this perspective, it is obvious why the eu should support and accelerate the transition towards a data-driven economy in europe. availability of information and knowledge will definitely stimulate research and innovation and will create many opportunities for businesses across europe. furthermore, the data—driven economy will improve competitiveness and make citizens’ lives better. in this context, it can be argued that the data—driven economy will bring productivity growth to the eu. that is another reason why we should support it and facilitate it.
in writing. – the data-driven economy will stimulate research and innovation on data while leading to more business opportunities and an increased availability of knowledge and capital, in particular for smes, across europe. social and economic benefits associated with the integrated use of data in all sectors of the european economy and all fields of european research could be enormous. big data is an integral part of the new digital market, which i have been continuously supporting with my work as mep. that is why i am in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution on the situation in eritrea, as what is happening in the country is deeply worrying. since its declaration of independence in 1993, the country has been ruled by a single president, isaias afewerki, who has for the past 15 years led a highly authoritarian and repressive government. one of the main criticisms of the country is that it does not implement the constitution, which was adopted and ratified in 1997, violates human rights, there are many cases of torture and representatives of all religions are persecuted. the situation in eritrea is deteriorating steadily, causing many people to flee and leave the country, as evidenced by the 450,000 people seeking refuge in neighbouring countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it reflects the current situation in eritrea, its political context and the human rights violations which are seriously hampering the economic and human development of the country. in the resolution, we recall the importance of better using the european development fund (edf), which is to contribute to poverty reduction and socioeconomic development in eritrea and to contribute to the opening up of eritrea by enabling progress in democracy, human rights, governance and security. the national indicative programme, in particular its governance component, should enable eritrea to move forward in the process of democratization and to promote the country's openness and stability. we also recall in this resolution that the european parliament must be given powers of control over the edf, which still operates outside the budget of the european union.
in writing. ‒ eritrea is one of the top refugee—producing countries in the world. this is not a coincidence. the country is a notorious human rights violator. one of the main reasons for the endless migration from the country is the fact that eritrea conscripts all men and unmarried women into the so-called ‘national service’. although eritrean law limits national service to 18 months, most conscripts serve for much of their working lives. working conditions are usually very harsh: people do not get paid or they get very small amount of money; brutal torture and beating are used as a way to force soldiers to do their jobs. therefore, i call on the eritrean authorities to respect human rights and, most importantly, immediately to end mandatory military conscription, including forced labour and rampant rights abuses, and to allow freedom of worship, freedom of the media and freedom of expression.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, even though we cannot speak of any progress in the past year. the situation in the country is extremely difficult macedonia is in the most serious political crisis in years, the basic human rights of the bulgarian community are violated, there is a strong politicization of the judiciary and public administration, the media is controlled by the ruling party, reforms are stalled, and the pre-accession process itself frozen. despite the country's problems, i support its aspiration to join the european union, because european integration is a highly demanding and reform-promoting process. although i would like to see more texts related to the problems of the bulgarian community in macedonia, i am pleased with the final version of the resolution, which incorporated many of my proposals and affirmed the wording recognizing the existence of a community with bulgarian identity in the country. we also had great success in developing the part on relations with bulgaria, including wording promoting the conclusion of a treaty of good neighbourliness with bulgaria, joint celebrations of events and personalities from common history and the creation of expert committees on history and education.
in writing. ‒ i supported the progress report for montenegro, as the country has made real progress in the past year. with 22 negotiating chapters open, two of which are closed, montenegro can be described as a champion in the pre-accession process, showing a great will and desire to move towards deeper european integration. despite the progress made, the european parliament calls for further reforms to improve the quality of legislation and for further efforts to fight corruption. on the other hand, although in a separate process, montenegro has undergone swift and efficient nato accession negotiations and is expected to join the alliance by the end of the year. from a security perspective, montenegro's membership of nato is extremely important because, in addition to the serious problems in the entire region related to the growing threat of terrorism and jihadist organisations, the western balkans remain one of the main areas of expansion of russian interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'abstention' on the annual report on the banking union because i believe that it will be a long time before supervision is fully effective. the assumption that supervision will be able to deal with the urgent problems of weak capitalisation of individual credit institutions or even entire national banking systems is unrealistic. the report characterises the banking union as bringing many improvements for banks, but at the same time there are many aspects that need to be improved in order for it to work without backsliding for taxpayers. i also disagree with the harmonisation of deposit protection rules. i believe that this approach could have a negative effect by reducing the level of protection in some member states.
in writing. – with this report, that i have been particularly involved with as a shadow rapporteur, the european parliament gives the deserved importance to risk-reduction measures, which will prevent moral hazard. it clearly states that if the costs for bank failures and insolvencies are to be mutualised, the risk must be contained to the maximum extent possible. the report anticipates further measures to achieve a substantial reduction of risks in the european banking system. next to making sure that bail-in rules are consistently applied, it is paving the way for a review of the macro-prudential policy framework, the further reduction of national options and discretion and better handling of non-performing loans. providing a clear incentive for reducing sovereign exposures and a balanced approach towards the third pillar of the banking union, the report makes a strong statement for a prudent and forward-looking system. i welcome the report and would like to thank all colleagues for their support and i look forward to our future work on banking union legislation.
mr president, refit was designed to be a firewall and watchdog since 2012. the programme implemented over 200 actions and contributed to savings for businesses and individuals, which is great. however, this motion for a resolution does not cover very obvious items. the idea is to go simple, right? but there are 65 key documents on refit, so it is not that simple or user-friendly. the commission work programme for 2016 includes 40 refit initiatives, but not that many of them concern the reduction of the administrative burden for beneficiaries of eu funding. at the same time, original investments through the eu budget for the period 2014-2020 total over eur 250 billion. billions of those euros are absorbed by bureaucracy in the process of application, management and control of eu-funded projects. in november 2015, 92% of the meps in this chamber voted in favour of a resolution for cutting red tape, but few of those priorities are implemented in the resolution. i support the commission in that initiative, but when things are not going as planned more concrete action is required. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, many citizens still do not have sufficient knowledge about the values on which european integration is based, nor how the european union and its institutions function and directly influence their countries and their own activities. to help citizens understand that the european union benefits our everyday life we need to bring the european union closer to its citizens, explaining in practical terms what the eu does for each of us. enhancing dialogue about european union in our schools, associations and public spaces is essential, especially in the current situation of an increasingly globalised world which faces unprecedented challenges. teaching about the eu should reflect the complex relationship between the european union and its member states. it should be clear for all citizens that the eu has been shaped by its member states with their unique histories and diverse cultures. i believe that an intercultural approach to education policy is highly needed.
in writing. i believe that the introduction of european citizenship education in schools is extremely important because it will allow children from an early age to be familiar with their rights and obligations as european citizens and to participate fully in the political life of europe and their own country. the decline in youth voting is a particularly worrying trend, which i believe clearly demonstrates the need for civic education that introduces young people to european democratic institutions, principles and practices, and the opportunities that european integration offers them. the lack of understanding of how the eu works and its core values and principles makes younger generations of europeans easy targets for disinformation campaigns aimed at undermining the foundations of a democratic europe and weakening its institutions, fuelling populist and nationalist attitudes. this is a challenge that deserves a european response that respects national competences and educational traditions. the european dimension in education will help to rebuild the weakened link between the european union and its citizens by creating a sense of belonging to a community based on values and the rule of law. in this context, it is important to ensure that teachers are motivated to teach this knowledge to young people and have all the necessary resources.
in writing. the european union is facing increasing challenges - local, national, global, economic, political. to be able to face them and to go on stronger, it is important to feel european, to know how the union works, what it can do for us and what we can do for it. i therefore believe that knowledge and belonging to the eu should be built from an early age, and schools in all member states should promote the european dimension in education. the european parliament's report on eu education in schools provides excellent guidance on how to impart knowledge of the union's objectives and mechanisms and to encourage critical thinking about europe's priorities and values. only in this way will the younger generation be prepared to work and live as active citizens in an increasingly integrated union and a globalised world. learning about the eu in school also requires a new approach, alongside teacher training, as mentioned in the report. i believe it is key that the classroom uses interactive methods and examples of how the eu is relevant to the lives of each of us.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the creeping islamisation in the roma neighbourhoods in bulgaria, such as that in pazardzhik, which represents a serious threat to our national security and to the national security of the other member states of the european union. the result of these processes was recently seen in paris and brussels. this radicalization and islamization is organized and carried out by the authorities in the republic of turkey, which continues its aggression and invasion on the territory of the republic of bulgaria through the formation of a new pro-turkish islamist political organization and party, conductor of erdogan's aggressive policy. that was yesterday. it is high time that the leaders of the european states realized the real threat posed by today's new turkish neo-ottoman policy, and that they took their stand and took their side in this real war being fought on the territory of the european continent. there is no more time for political correctness and no more time for burying our heads in the sand.
mr president, commissioner, for several years now you have been talking about the need for a comprehensive policy on the refugee crisis and on migration, and it still does not work. there can be no successful migration policy with just one external border or just one agreement, as with turkey. naval operations off the italian coast have sent refugees to the balkans. the closure of the balkan route has brought them back to the gates of italy. now, new corridors will open up through bulgaria and albania. the agreement with turkey is not a benchmark for european policy, it has started to stall, creating more problems than concrete results. the new border and coast guard strategy will keep schengen europe as a fortress, but leave three countries - bulgaria, romania and croatia - out of the policy. finally, the commission proposes new ideas for dublin reform. we expected more, commissioner, you only offer cosmetic corrections. once again, the principle of solidarity will be circumvented, and there will definitely be a double standard towards some countries. you asked if the crisis is an opportunity to deal with or a disaster. there is no such dilemma, mr. avramopoulos, because the crisis has already claimed thousands of lives.
in writing. the crisis in european agriculture was caused in part by political decisions taken in brussels, the most tangible of which are the effects of the so-called russian embargo. since 2014 to date, milk prices in my country, bulgaria, have continued to decline, and bulgarian producers in the sector have reported a decline in revenues of almost 20%. the losses of the agricultural industry in bulgaria from the russian embargo, including the processing, in the various sectors reach nearly 300 million leva from august 2014 to today. despite the enormous difficulties facing our farmers, which cost billions, the european commission continues its policy of opening its doors to imports from third countries, which often receive subsidies from the country of origin and which undermine european production. the european commission must stop misleading the sector with disproportionately low aid and proposals to seek new markets in a sector with high seasonal amplitudes such as agriculture. it is high time that measures were proposed to protect the european producer from imports from third countries.
in writing. ‒ codification is a normal thing and i always support such reports, of course it should happen smoothly and without any change in substance or if such change is necessary, it should be minimal. it has become clear that this is precisely the codification that is needed to reduce the administrative burden and that will allow more acp countries to import quality goods into the community. of course, it should be noted here that most of the companies there are either owned or part-owned by companies from the union, so in this way we help the eu economy.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it recommends adopting the commission's proposal without amendment, the aim of which is to ensure transparency, simplification and clarity of the legislation on products originating in the acp countries and their access to the eu market. in particular, the proposal regulates the import of products originating in acp countries which are not leastdeveloped countries (ldcs), granting them duty-free and quota-free access to the union market pending the conclusion and application of the respective economic partnership agreements. this temporary instrument has been subject to numerous revisions and amendments and is clarified and simplified in the new commission proposal. the first thing to do is to increase readability and legal certainty, and that is why i supported this report.
in writing. ‒ it is our job to ensure transparency, clarity and simplification of eu legislation. therefore i support the codification and recast of council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 of 20 december 2007 applying the arrangements for products originating in certain states which are part of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states. in this sense, it is important to note that this proposal contains a straightforward codification of the existing legal text, without any significant change in its substance. on the other hand, this could serve as a basis for agreement establishing or leading to the establishment of economic partnership agreements. here it is vital to emphasise the fact that the establishment of economic partnership agreements with acp states will boost their economic growth and will promote reforms.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the signing of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial means provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, of the other part, because the agreement is of great economic importance for the eu. the greenland agreement is the third most important for the eu in terms of economic value - it gives european vessels access to a wide range of fish stocks in the greenland eez, while providing eu financial assistance of €17.8 million per year for five years. the report thus ensures financial benefits for both parties and coherence of fishing activities in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for an eu-macao agreement on certain aspects of air services, because it guarantees the right of establishment of all eu carriers. the agreement provides guarantees for compliance with eu law in the areas of competition and safety protection.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement on air services between the european union and the government of macao because in practice it replaces certain provisions in the existing 15 bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and macao. to clarify this statement, it is important to emphasise the fact that traditionally international aviation relations between member states and third countries have been governed by bilateral air services agreements. in the long term, these agreements have broken eu laws and have promoted anti-competitive practices. therefore, the negotiated agreement with macao will solve many issues when it comes to safety, taxation and compatibility with competition rules. last but not least, it will become example for other countries.
in writing. ‒ undoubtedly, extending the minimum standard rate for vat at 15% is in the interest of the proper functioning of the internal market. this is a significant achievement, since current rules have not been updated to reflect new developments and new economic realities such as the rise of a digital industry. in this sense, extending the minimum standard rate for vat at 15% will on the one hand facilitate economic growth and on the other hand will fight tax fraud. therefore, we should support it.
in writing. – value added tax is a major source of tax revenue in the member states and as such it should be clearly and precisely regulated. with the report on the minimum vat rate, we make sure that these revenues are present. even though the amendment of the directive has come a bit too late and for several months there was no legislation on the minimum threshold for vat, i am glad that the report is being voted and i fully support it.
in writing. ‒ i support cooperation between europol and brazil because it aims to improve and strengthen joint action between them in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime affecting several member states. the terms of this agreement include the exchange of information on criminal proceedings, on methods of combating and preventing crime and assistance in the investigation of crime. i believe that cooperation is an important factor in addressing security challenges not only for the eu and its member states, but also for the world.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that we are living in a very globalised and developed world. but today’s world is not peaceful and secure. because of increasing globalisation, the world is facing security threats and challenges that are different in scale and sophistication. in light of this, it is important to note that today’s global security threats and challenges such as organised crime, terrorism, cyber-attacks, credit card fraud, human and drug trafficking cannot be resolved by independent state, organisation or specific sector policy. therefore, we need more ambitious, more coordinated and more holistic approaches to solve them. in this context, strategic cooperation agreement between brazil and europol can be regarded as a big step forward in fight against organised crime, illegal trafficking, cybercrime, terrorism and etc. in addition, it is also important to note that security cooperation between eu and brazil is urgent since upcoming 2016 olympic games in brazil are expected to increase criminal activities in the state. in this sense, security cooperation between europol and brazil will ensure safety for athletes, delegations, tourists and guests.
in writing. – in these times of turmoil and increased threat of terrorism attacks in europe, we should use all means to strengthen our capacities to cope with the threats. brazil is increasingly relevant in the fight against organised crime, including illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. an agreement between europol and brazil, especially months before the 2016 olympic games, is important for the enable the exchange of specialist knowledge, information as well as advice and support related to criminal investigations. hence, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that international waters must be protected from encroachment and that there must be stricter controls on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, mineral exploitation, drilling, pollution and marine litter. i support the creation of an international instrument under the un convention on the law of the sea that will reduce the damage currently being done to the marine ecosystem by ensuring the sustainable management of marine resources in international waters.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the resolution because there is no doubt that we should support efforts made by the un (in particular unga) to move the issue of marine biological diversity beyond areas of national jurisdiction to a point where an internationally legally binding instrument can be foreseen. in fact, it is our common international duty to suppress the increased pressure on the sustainability and conservation of the marine biodiversity caused by marine activities. in this context, i fully believe that the eu should play an important role not only in development of this new instrument but also in its implementation process because the union has experience in regulation and coordination of marine activities beyond areas of national jurisdiction.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because in order to facilitate the agricultural sector and to guarantee food security in the eu, we should pay serious attention to proposals for the revision of eu legislation on zootechnical and genealogical conditions for trade in and imports into the union of breeding animals and their germinal products (semen, oocytes and embryos). i believe that there are two important steps that have to be taken. first, we should work to ensure animal health and welfare, including transport conditions for live animals inside and outside the union. thus, the eu and all actors in the zootechnical sector will take responsibility and will tackle the inhuman treatment of animals not only within the eu but also in third countries. second, we should facilitate cooperation between breed societies and breeding operations in order to remove obstacles to the free movement of breeding animals and their genetic material.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the situation in the mediterranean and the need for a comprehensive eu approach to migration, as it is a continuation of the cowardly liberal policy. the report highlights as key priorities the establishment of a mandatory migrant redistribution system, the replacement of the existing dublin regulation with a centralised asylum procedure organised by european hotspots (so that a person will effectively apply for asylum throughout the eu rather than in a single member state), and more legally-legal routes for economic migrants. this is completely at odds with my understanding of how to deal with the wave of immigration that is flooding europe. my colleagues and i from the epp believe that the priorities should be to increase controls at the external borders of the european union, to increase the efficiency of the repatriation of failed asylum seekers, and to allocate more funding to europol, the european asylum support office and frontex.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it proposes a long-term strategy for a genuinely comprehensive, joint and humanitarian management of the migration crisis in europe. it is a structured and balanced document, in which the principle of solidarity underpins the proposed approach. solidarity, both internally between member states and externally towards third countries, is expressed in a series of measures, such as relocation and resettlement schemes. the document also makes recommendations for the successful integration of refugees into the eu and the consideration of vulnerable people. the report also looks at the external dimension of this policy, stressing the importance of strengthening the protection of the external borders, which also involves strengthening the union's agencies and effectively combating the smuggling of migrants. finally, i welcome the emphasis on cooperation with third countries, which remains essential if we are to tackle the root causes of migration flows and anticipate future crises as far as possible.
in writing. ‒ mr president president, ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful for the impressive support both in the libe committee and in the vote today on the amendment i proposed, that frontline countries which are not part of the schengen area should be able to participate in and benefit from the establishment of a european border and coast guard on an equal footing with the schengen countries. this is particularly relevant for countries such as bulgaria and romania, which are charged with the responsibility of defending the external borders of the european union, but which, despite meeting the admission criteria, remain outside the schengen area. in insisting on the abolition of a two-speed europe, i will continue to work for equal treatment of bulgaria and romania in the formation and operation of a european border and coast guard in all the reports that lie ahead.
in writing. ‒ undoubtedly, nowadays we are facing unprecedented migration crisis across the mediterranean. undoubtedly, we are in need of a holistic approach in order to tackle effectively the migrant crisis, its scale and the complexity of the problems related to it. in fact, such a holistic approach we can find in the roadmap proposed by the alde to get a grip of a migrant crisis. the roadmap proposes seven urgent measures such as creation of european rapid refugee emergency force (erref), establishment of european border and coast guard (ebcg), creation of european blue card for economic migrants, peace plan and marshall plan for the mediterranean region. i believe that the eu should implement these measures in order not only to grip of migration crisis but also to strengthen global approach to migration and mobility.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mrs karim because i think it stresses to a large extent the importance of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and of enhanced cooperation with national parliaments, as enshrined in european law. i particularly agree with the call on the european commission to pay more attention to how the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are respected in the process of european legislation. i believe that national parliaments should be encouraged to be more involved in the process of monitoring compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, since in most cases only the polish and swedish parliaments send their position. i also support the initiative to check subsidiarity and to carry out a full impact assessment at the end of the legislative negotiations before the relevant legislation enters into force.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that principles of subsidiarity and proportionality should apply to eu’s common commerce policy in a proper way. this is so, because of the importance of the policy in the formation process of eu’s economic relations with third countries and regional organisations. thereby, in a long term perspective, both principles (subsidiarity and proportionality) will bring transparency in cases when the union carry out trade negotiations which on the other hand will speed up ratification procedure of trade agreements between the eu and a third party.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report by ms kaufman on the refit programme, which supports the ongoing process of checking whether european legislation is fit for purpose and focuses on the quality, not just the quantity, of legislative initiatives. i also support the proposal to enable national parliaments to evaluate new legislation. this will help to assess the challenges they face in implementing laws and regulations.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour because we should acknowledge that the regulatory fitness and performance programme (refit) represents an important step towards simplifying legislation and reducing administrative burdens of regulation for businesses as well as eliminating barriers to growth and job creation. looking from this perspective, we should work to ensure predictability, legal certainty and transparency of refit. in doing so, however, we should not forget that the impact of legislation on large enterprises and on smes may differ. therefore, we should propose and implement legislation that clearly states that all employees have a right to the highest level of protection regarding health and safety in the workplace, regardless of the size of the employer or the underlying contract.
in writing. – unnecessary bureaucracy tarnishes the image of the european union and is a burden for businesses and citizens. it also slows down economic growth and the creation of new job opportunities. i strongly support the necessity to cut red tape, remove regulatory burdens, simplify and improve legislation, so that the eu policy is able to deliver results faster and more efficiently. therefore, i welcome the refit report and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i agree with some of the key issues it highlights. we need better and better rules if we want our commercial sectors to grow and to be able to support the creation of new businesses, which are often key drivers of innovation. in view of the principle of subsidiarity, i believe that the report does not seek to interfere with our work in the juri committee. the results of impact assessments before taking hasty steps in terms of policy and over-regulation, and the focus on an effective enforcement mechanism, are crucial issues. they will not only contribute to a more favourable economic environment across the eu, but also achieve a level playing field.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen,i support the report on better regulation of the single market as it is a good basis for achieving a holistic and integrated approach that does not place undue burdens on the manufacturing sector, innovation or trade, but contributes to the creation of a sustainable market as a prerequisite for the long-term economic development of the eu and the prosperity of its citizens. building a single market is at the heart of the european project and continues to be a means of boosting economic growth and job creation in the eu. the achievement of the european single market and the digital single market requires a strong commitment and shared responsibility of each european institution towards open and transparent regulation that takes into account the positions of all stakeholders at european and national level. a key step in improving regulation in the single market is to eliminate unnecessary regulation, red tape and their negative effects. simplifying access to the single market and taking advantage of the digital revolution are key factors in achieving a competitive regulatory environment that supports jobs and business in europe. in addition, as we work towards the creation of technology-neutral and future-oriented market regulation, we should also focus our efforts on raising awareness of existing single market services targeting businesses and citizens, such as solvit, adr and odr.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the biggest player on the global trading scene because we are the world’s largest single market with transparent rules and regulations. in fact, the single market has brought tremendous benefits for european citizen and businesses but it has not always operated smoothly. the full potential of free movement of goods, services and capital has been unexploited due to missing legislation and lack of enforcement. therefore, i believe that we should work to implement single market regulation, regulation that is based on the principle of subsidiarity and aims before all to be effective and efficient. this necessarily means that we should create a competitive regulatory environment which in practice will facilitate but not frustrate production, innovation and commerce. in a long-term perspective, a competitive regulatory environment will bring economic growth to the eu and prosperity to its citizens
in writing. – as a firm supporter of policies which encourage and support the development of smes and also a member of the imco committee, i welcome the report that analyses how to make the whole policy cycle more efficient in the interest of smes and consumers. establishing a functioning european single market which supports production, innovation and trade is of utmost importance for the stimulation of growth across the eu. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
i have supported this material because when i travel around the czech republic as a member of the european parliament and debate with children about the eu in different schools, i feel the imbalance of information and knowledge among our young generation. some schools place a certain emphasis on public affairs and eu-related issues, while others underestimate them. i believe therefore that we should encourage member states to promote the dissemination of eu information in their school systems. i don't think this is about propaganda and celebrating the eu. i think that we should not do that in any case, but young people should have enough information to decide for themselves how to approach the european integration process and whether to support it, but i feel that they simply do not have that information. so if this material leads to young people in europe having more information, then this material has fulfilled its role.
mr president, in the last few years the european union has been going through a severe economic and financial crisis and all efforts have been directed towards overcoming it. but it is also suffering from a crisis of citizenship. according to the latest eurobarometer data, 44% of citizens feel that they do not have enough knowledge about the functioning of the european union, while 52% feel that their vote does not matter. i find these statistics alarming. it is no surprise that people feel increasingly distant from brussels and what is happening and being decided in the european capital. to regain its legitimacy, the european union must inevitably reconnect with its citizens. that is why i supported the report on the study of the european union in school. the young people must be taught to read european integration critically, they must know not only what the role of the member states is in the development of the european union, but also how the union influences political processes at national level. the european union affects every aspect of our lives, european citizens, especially young people, need to be aware of the added value of our membership of the european union.
in writing. - i did not support this report and i will explain why. i think we should leave training and training programmes to the member states and not claim powers that are not provided for in the treaties. i am a supporter of subsidiarity and i do not think we have the power to impose such advice as in this report on the study of the eu in schools in europe. and look at the reasons that are laid out in this report - to prevent euroscepticism! i don't consider myself a eurosceptic, and my view is that the eu as a political and economic community provides many advantages that a country like mine would not have, in particular the common market and free trade. however, i believe that studying the eu and the history of the creation of the union in order to strengthen the european identity of citizens, as stated in the report, is not what my constituents are fighting for - we want a europe of nations! not a federal europe!
in writing. ‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report on 'teaching the european union in schools' because i believe that the measures it proposes will improve the awareness and interest of european citizens in european measures that affect their lives. the introduction of a study of the european union will lead to a better understanding of its institutions and their interrelations, the mechanisms and timing of their work, and to an improvement in awareness of the rights which the union grants to its citizens and the means of protecting them. last but not least, learning about the european union will remind children in europe of the historical reasons for its creation and the need to preserve it in the name of our common area of justice, freedom, security and solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's report on european union education in schools. i had the opportunity to participate in its preparation as rapporteur for the european people's party. i am convinced that the european union should be studied in school not in terms of how it works, but in terms of the rights and freedoms it provides for young people. each member state should develop a methodology based on its own experience, because only by knowing and overcoming history can we explain the reasons for the existence of the union as it is today and the benefits of our membership. the member states are responsible for their education systems, but the union supports them in setting common objectives and exchanging good practice. one of these aims and ideas is to include europe and the european union in school curricula. the european parliament's committee on culture and education believes that there is a need to deepen the consideration of eu-related issues in order to bridge the gap between europe and its citizens. the eu must become more visible and understandable to its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i believe in the need for a european dimension in education, given the enormous impact of the eu on citizens' daily lives. the eu needs to be more visible and better integrated into the curriculum and extracurricular activities - this would help to promote a greater understanding and commitment to its core values. the eu is going through a crisis of its democratic legitimacy, but this would be a logical way to restore and strengthen the union's link with its citizens. the report also highlights the important role of the 'erasmus+', 'europe for citizens' and 'creative europe' programmes in promoting education and training, language skills, active citizenship, cultural awareness and intercultural understanding. these programmes undoubtedly contribute to strengthening european citizenship and it is necessary to provide appropriate financial support for these programmes.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, the eu is facing unprecedented challenges that need to be addressed at european and national level, but most importantly, these responses need to be supported by citizens. unfortunately, according to the 2014 eurobarometer, citizens have limited knowledge of the eu, of the work of its institutions, of the general policies that protect their rights and well-being. moreover, euroscepticism is growing and the number of citizens who feel distanced from the european project is increasing. in these circumstances, it is necessary to start a dialogue about the eu in schools in an organised way. while education is a competence of the member states, the eu can promote cooperation between them and support and complement national action in this field. the previous pan-european programmes in the education sector and the current erasmus+ programme have contributed to a considerable extent to the eu's integration processes. action at eu level is needed to bring a european dimension to our children's education so that they can know not only the geography, history and culture of europe, but also that they are citizens of a great union of established freedoms and values. member states have an interest in making the eu more visible and understandable to their own citizens, and should therefore not oppose the initiative to teach the eu in schools.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, because mobility in vocational education and training (vet) is a source of genuine and diverse learning experience. unfortunately, just a small percentage of young people currently in professional training are involved in a mobility programme during their training. experience-oriented education, and of course the learning and training mobility within it, incorporates inputs from the business environment to enable participants to react in a flexible way to the rapidly changing world and labour market demands. individuals need to be motivated to engage in mobility and to take up lifelong learning through efficient and sustainable financing tools and themes. erasmus+ proved to be the most successful mobility programme, but we should do better in organising, facilitating and promoting mobility in vet and ensuring full recognition of the knowledge and skills acquired in the context of vet. it also has to be clear that the modernisation of vet systems for lifelong learning and mobility require active involvement and commitment from all stakeholders.
i was happy to support the motion. as a former university cantor, i have practical experience of student mobility across europe. it is extremely beneficial for young people, not only because of the acquisition and assimilation of knowledge of a foreign language, but also because of social maturity and maturity. it is good that we are trying to extend erasmus to other groups of young people or to groups of people who are being re-qualified. it is a real problem when, for example, in the area of apprenticeship training, only 1% of apprentices across europe have experience of some kind of exchange placement, and it is good that this material is trying to widen the range of people who do not have a university degree and give them the chance to also take training and other courses in other eu countries. if this were to succeed, it would certainly be good for the young generation to increase their chances of being employed.
mr president, erasmus+ is one of the european union's most successful programmes and a symbol of its own. the opportunity to live in another country, to experience a new culture and to interact with different people is a great opportunity for both professional and personal development of young people. experience abroad is a proven plus in finding a new job. this is why mobility opportunities should cover different target groups. i support the report which calls for the promotion of mobility in vocational education and training. unfortunately, in the new erasmus+ programme, it is being left in the background. the differences in the procedures for the recognition and accreditation of work experience abroad in the different member states also create additional complexity. increasing mobility in this area will help to increase the attractiveness of vocational education. young people who have chosen the vocational training path should have the same mobility prospects as those of students in higher education. currently only 1% of them participate in mobility schemes. i believe that erasmus+ should provide equal opportunities for all.
in writing. ‒ 'erasmus+' is perhaps one of the eu's greatest successes and we must therefore closely monitor its implementation and citizens' feedback on its improvement. vocational education and training is promoted through various eu instruments and mobility is an important element in character building and experience gaining. the report i was asked to follow on behalf of my conservative group gives some good ideas, such as calling for better accessibility to existing vocational education and training mobility initiatives, especially for families in economically disadvantaged situations, and measures to facilitate labour market integration. at the same time, however, there is a focus on this mobility across sectors, which i do not think should be the goal. it is also proposed to create a european standard for mobility in vocational education and training, without specifying what exactly this entails. it is important that we listen to the concerns of citizens in this regard and see where the problems lie - whether in the red tape and paperwork or in the inaccessibility of such programs for many people with low incomes. in the end, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report recognises the erasmus+ programme as a success for mobility, but tries to identify its shortcomings. mobility is key to the social integration of young people to make them more competitive in the labour market. however, excessive bureaucracy in educational institutions undoubtedly represents an obstacle to the effective implementation of the erasmus+ programme. action is needed to stimulate the number of successful applications. the youth unemployment rate in the eu as a whole currently stands at 22.1%. this raises the question of the mismatches between skills and labour market requirements, illustrated by the high unemployment rate. the report calls for account to be taken of socioeconomic constraints that impede equal access to vocational education and training, including mobility. it must be ensured that these programmes are accessible to all citizens without any discrimination. the creation of a common european education area would contribute to the creation and development of a stronger european identity and a stronger sense of citizenship.
in writing. – since its launch in 1987, the erasmus programme has seen not only a constant increase in the number of students taking part, but also in the quality and diversity of the activities proposed. since then it has proven to be the world’s most successful mobility programme. during my mandate i have devoted a large part of my work towards education policies, both in my home country and on a european level. mobility in vocational education and training is essential for ensuring personal development, improvement of language skills and employability and, therefore, i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - mr. and mrs. president, ladies and gentlemen, the mobility of young people is a cornerstone of european integration and the consolidation of european citizenship, but it also supports their personal development by providing more opportunities for their realisation. the erasmus+ programme, which brought together many predecessor programmes, highlights mobility as an important part of the concept of european higher education. but erasmus+ should not be limited to the academic part of education. i support the report on the extension of student mobility with work-based training, traineeships and internships of young people in other countries, which today best meets the needs of the labour market. according to the commission's 2015 autumn economic forecast, job vacancies are increasing in the european economy, partly due to the mismatch between the knowledge and skills of jobseekers and labour market demands. in view of the strategic targets for 2020 to reduce unemployment, especially among young people, any reasonable measure to improve erasmus+ towards vocational training for young people is worthwhile. i expect the commission to take the lead in creating the right legislative, financial and regulatory conditions, and in giving the necessary levers and responsibilities to the relevant institutions, so that we can have targeted mobility for vocational training for young people as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because i strongly disagree that all member states can be represented by a single representative. economic policy is the prerogative of each member state and the many different economies, because of regional, political and principled characteristics, are exactly what the democratic forum represents. this is not only a basic principle to be respected, but also an advantage in terms of political influence.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the world’s leading trading power and single market. however, i supported the resolution because the not concluded eurozone crisis (european sovereign debt crisis) in several eurozone member states (ireland, portugal, spain, cyprus and greece) proves that the eu needs assistance from the imf. in this context, i believe that the eu should seek full membership within the imf. full eu membership within the imf will ensure that the union exploits its potential fully, protects its interests and those of all its member states, deepens economic and monetary integration. in a long term perspective, unified external representation of the eu within the imf will increase the importance of the eu and the euro area and will strengthen global multilateral economic and financial governance.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i agree that inshore fishing is an important form of fishing in eu countries. it ensures a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable way of fishing. i believe that the commission should take measures to protect the coastal fisheries sector in the regions which depend on it for their livelihood, and i also believe that it is particularly important to take account of the specificities of the different regions when setting fishing opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on common rules for the application of the external dimension of the cfp, including fisheries agreements, because it developed the framework defining the rules for fishing by european vessels outside eu territorial waters, setting out the way in which eu countries interact with third countries and providing for mutual benefits for the eu and third countries, including their populations and the fishing sector. the report provides for the promotion of sustainable fisheries, as well as the improvement of fisheries management standards on the international stage and the enhancement of transparency regarding the overall size of the fisheries and the identity of the different fisheries operators. i also believe that it is particularly important to introduce stricter measures to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing as provided for in this report.
in writing. attacks in the heart of the european union have once again demonstrated the delays in finding and implementing adequate solutions to deal with the terrorist threat in europe. the tragic loss of 32 lives has reaffirmed the need to strengthen the exchange of information between intelligence services and between police services. it is unacceptable that out of 28 member states, only five, including bulgaria, regularly provide europol with information on suspected terrorists and foreign fighters. a genuine european response requires genuine cooperation and shared responsibility in the fight against this transnational threat. i welcome the efforts made by my country, bulgaria, to provide europol with regular information on terrorists who have passed through our territory. with foreign fighters from western european countries on their way to and from syria via turkey, it is of the utmost importance for us to have timely information from our european partners about who is crossing the external border. on several occasions, the bulgarian services have proven that, when effectively cooperating, they successfully guarantee european and national security by capturing and extraditing wanted terrorists across europe. it's time that all the measures we've been talking about since the charlie hebdo attacks are put into practice. europe cannot afford another attack and more broken promises.
in writing.– tax avoidance is not always illegal, but it is always immoral. i therefore welcome the commission proposals for public country—by—country reporting which builds on the work of commissioner moscovici to address tax evasion and tax fraud. this is an essential step forward towards achieving tax transparency, and ensuring that taxes are paid where the profit is generated. behind the numbers and sweetheart deals for large companies, the real victims of tax avoidance and tax evasion are social justice, prosperity and the common good of societies, transparency, fairness and, ultimately, the ordinary people who suffer from all these. european socialists have long campaigned for fair tax policies, including a european financial transaction tax, but also to crack down on tax heavens, as they are used to hide assets and wealth on a massive scale. instead of facilitating investments, untraceable finance flows fuel global corruption, crime and war, bypassing national legislation, international sanctions and evading justice. in europe and the world we want to live in, there is no place for such abrupt robbery – robbery of people’s lives and future. we cannot allow crime to thrive right under our nose, hidden in complex legislation and paperwork. eu governments must act. now.
madam president, mrs mogherini, colleagues, we are witnessing another shooting in the nagorno-karabakh region. on april 1 and 2 of this year, 33 people were killed and over 200 were injured. on april 22, 2015, shortly before the anniversary of the armenian genocide by ottoman authorities, azerbaijani military again opened fire on armenians despite the ceasefire. it is important to underline that on 26 september 2015, the co-chairs of the organization for security and cooperation in europe made a proposal to the presidents of the republic of azerbaijan and the republic of armenia to establish a mechanism to monitor who violates the ceasefire. as you can see, honourable members, there is no such mechanism and the reason is the refusal of azerbaijan. i think the european parliament should make a clear statement. it is unacceptable that a country that is part of the eastern partnership and a strategic partner of the union cannot attack the civilian population, trample on basic human rights such as the right to self-determination. in the recent events, azerbaijan has received the support of only the neo-ottoman turkey, whose interest is to fight armenia and the armenian people and cover up the topic of the armenian genocide.
in writing. for almost three decades, one of the most dangerous conflicts across the vast expanses of europe has been in the mountains of the south caucasus. in recent days, the conflict in nagorno-karabakh has flared up and is in danger of escalating unless the international community intervenes. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu-azerbaijan joint action on the energy union. i believe that the eu can no longer be a passive observer, but should play a more active role in the peaceful resolution of conflicts, which currently represent an insurmountable obstacle to the full development of good neighbourly relations in the eastern and southern partnership countries. nagorno-karabakh requires more than just diplomatic shuttles, because the region is already linked to the eu we have an active partnership in the fields of economy, energy and security issues. the eu must insist within the osce to participate in the minsk group together with the us, russia and france and to be a guarantor of a peace agreement. it is necessary for the european external action service to enter into consultations with both parties to the conflict and with civil society in armenia and azerbaijan in order to propose a european peace plan for nagorno-karabakh in line with un security council resolutions.
on behalf of the group the alde. mr president, madam high representative, colleagues, for more than 20 years europe has enjoyed peace and prosperity. it is clear that we are facing a changed environment today and we all need to realise that the challenges and threats facing the european union today are complex, interconnected and come from both within and beyond our common borders. to deal with this complex situation, we need strong political will, leadership for decisive collective action and a collective immune system. the european union can only become an effective and strategic player contributing to security at global level if there is a clear global strategy in the field of foreign and security policy to pave the way towards this objective. the european external action service needs to consolidate the foreign policy efforts of all 28 member states and to define strategic and operational objectives that can lead to concrete results. we need to improve the capacity of the european defence agency, but we also need to strengthen european intelligence exchange. this will be possible if we are united, prepared and take greater responsibility.
mr president, i would like to ask the high representative two questions: have you been contemplating the notion of working on a new european architecture of security arrangement, and has it crossed your mind that there might be an overall relief and reconstruction plan for the middle east/north african region? in the sense of the marshall plan – it will be 70 years next year since the speech of secretary marshall, who launched the plan – would you say that there is room for a mogherini plan of this same scale? i ask these questions because you have highlighted the need for an imaginative new approach built on engagement, responsibility and partnership. what would you say to these two questions?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, on behalf of alde i would also like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur for our joint work. the development of good political and economic relations with the countries of central asia is of strategic importance to the european union. there are several key factors that make the region significant not only for the union but also for other global powers. central asia is the natural bridge between the complex political and economic processes of the west and the dynamic developing world of the east. it is this particular geographical location and the possession of important energy resources that enable the countries of the region to develop close relations with europe, the usa, russia and china. the european union must work hard with the countries of the region to deepen our cooperation, to create regional programmes, new energy routes and to provide investment for the development of central asia. in this context, the reinstatement of the eu special representative for central asia will make an important contribution to the implementation of the strategy and to the deepening of our relations with the countries of the region. of course, this cooperation should be tailored to the achievements and progress of each side in terms of human rights, the rule of law, and also good neighbourly relations. i think it's important to improve cooperation with countries in the region in the fight against terrorism. the growing number of central asian citizens in the ranks of daesh and other terrorist organizations is a particularly worrying fact. in conclusion, i strongly believe that it is our moral duty to help these young independent states in building democratic pluralist societies.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks there have been many interpretations of the agreement with the republic of turkey, which have gone to the extreme of the european union capitulating, selling its soul, outsourcing the refugee problem. there are a few things you should know. the agreement with turkey was necessary and useful, also because of the european union's own weakness and inability to implement even the decisions already taken. now, the devil is in the details and the implementation of this agreement, including the financial part, because we are obliged to help the refugees where they are most and where they are closest to syria, including turkey, lebanon and jordan. second, we will not allow trade in human rights, freedom of the press, democracy. third, and most importantly, this agreement gives the european union a breathing space to organise its own single refugee policy, but if we don't do that, no agreement will help us.
in writing. ‒ i always support measures that contribute to growth and job creation. i believe, however, that only effective measures should be supported in this respect, and it is precisely this fund that my group and i consider to be inefficient, with a very low ratio between the results achieved and the investment made, to put it mildly. this report proposes an investment of eur 1 793 710 for the reintegration of 500 workers into the labour market. i turned that down.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. namely in this context, we should work to mobilise the egf in order to provide a financial contribution of eur 1 793 710 for 470 workers made redundant in volvo trucks and 177 in 4 suppliers and downstream producers. swedish authorities have provided all necessary assurance that the fund will be used effectively.
in writing. ‒ i am following my position on this inefficient fund for me in principle and voted against the proposal to spend funds again on low returns. part of the proposal is that a percentage of the funds be used to promote the fund, which is completely unacceptable, considering that this is wasted money that could be much better invested. my group and i are in favour of measures that lead to growth and job creation, but they have to be well studied and their results validated, and this fund is not such a measure.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 1/2016 has two components. the first part concerns the development of a new instrument for providing emergency assistance within the eu. the second part contains a transfer of funds to the european counter-terrorism centre. in my view, tackling the migration crisis requires a comprehensive strategy, not a piecemeal approach as the european commission and the council are currently doing. however, i supported the amending budget which will help the most affected countries, such as bulgaria, which is also an external border of the eu. it will also help to combat illegal immigration and the fight against terrorism. i hope that in the future the european union institutions will develop a clear and coherent strategy for protecting our borders and for returning people who are in the eu territory seeking social benefits.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the eu in a changing global environment - a more connected, contested and complex world, as it reflects the european commission's intention to move towards the creation of a common european army and a common defence policy. i and the majority of my colleagues in the group of european conservatives and reformists believe that military and defence policy is a matter of national sovereignty for the member states, many of which are members of nato. in addition, the creation of a common european army would also undermine nato's role as a guarantor of security in europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believe that despite the many problems and uncertainties in this area, we in the eu can become a guardian and guarantor of human rights, legal peace and security. of course, closer cooperation in this region will bring us the diversification of gas and oil supplies to the community that the commission so desires. of course, there is still much to be done in this area, but i hope this is a first step in the right direction. i'll be watching with interest what happens in these countries.
in writing. ‒ sadly, the zika virus, responsible for numerous cases of death and birth defects in brazil, is spreading rapidly in latin america and caribbean. this trend is very embarrassing particularly when we take into account the fact that there is no vaccine to prevent or medicine to threat zika virus. in this regard, eu response to the zika virus should be on one hand immediate and on the other similar to the response that the union had to ebola outbreak. this means that the eu should mobilise political, financial and scientific resources to help contain, control, treat and ultimately defeat zika. the fight against zika virus in reality is a fight for the future of humanity therefore the eu should lead this fight.
in writing. ‒ i am categorically opposed to the resolution on the situation in poland. the text adopted by the european parliament is a sign of double standards and interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign member state. the previous government undertook a rapid amendment of the constitutional tribunal act and appointed five judges on 8 october 2015, just before the elections on 25 october, thereby securing an overwhelming majority of 14 out of a total of 15 judges in the constitutional tribunal. is this not a violation of the elementary principle of pluralism in the courts and the 1997 venice commission recommendations that 'a ruling party should not be able to appoint all judges at its discretion'? by taking the side of the losing civic platform epp candidate, the commission's double standards and politicization are becoming increasingly apparent. i express my support for president andrzej duda and prime minister beata szydlo. i believe that the rule of the law and justice party will contribute to the welfare and prosperity of poland. our fight is to reform the union and return to the idea of a 'united europe of nations'!
in writing. ‒ it is our common european duty to respond to controversial new laws that have given the polish government more control over the media, right to appoint the heads of public tv and civil service directors. we cannot tolerate legislative and administrative practices that are not in accordance with our common eu law and our common european values such as democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights. therefore, i am calling on polish government to engage in structured dialogue with the european commission in order not only to find working solutions to worrying political developments but also and perhaps most importantly to preserve democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights in poland. in the name of democracy, in the name of poland and the eu we should never accept to give up our freedom and we should ever protect it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately it has taken more than five years since the european commission's original proposal for a directive on passenger reservation data and at least three major terrorist attacks to get us to the final vote tomorrow. over 100 people had to die and hundreds more were injured unnecessarily. for me as a legislator, that's the appalling price of a lack of political will to make a decision. the directive will not in itself prevent future terrorist attacks, but it is an important component of the overall package of counter-terrorism measures. the presence of foreign fighters requires law enforcement to have a full picture of who is crossing air borders so they can take the necessary measures before carrying out attacks. recent developments in the paris investigation also demonstrate why member states have made the right decision to include intra-eu flights within the scope of the directive. ensuring security in europe requires measures within the european union, not just at the external borders. i believe that the directive will facilitate the cooperation and, above all, the exchange of information between member states, which we have been talking about for so long in the context of the fight against terrorism. with the adoption of the directive, the european union is taking an important step towards restoring security in europe. it is our duty to support this measure so that we do not witness another terrorist attack.
madam president, regarding the 2015 report on turkey, we can underline a number of developments concerning the state of play in eu-turkey relations: cooperation on migration, the internal situation, and the progress on the cyprus reunification talks. the report welcomes the reinvigoration of the accession process, expresses the hope of opening new negotiation chapters when the benchmarks are met, and supports a structured and more frequent high-level dialogue on thematic issues. during 2015 turkey’s security situation deteriorated. where the economic criteria are concerned turkey is well advanced, but the external and internal imbalances should be corrected. in the current geopolitical situation, the 2015 report on turkey draws special attention to eu-turkey cooperation on migration. despite the significant challenges of the migration issue, we should proceed faster with the planned activities for mutually-beneficial and pragmatic cooperation with turkey. we welcome the progress made concerning the cyprus reunification talks that will lead to positive outcomes for both communities on the island. as an overall assessment, despite a number of shortcomings, we can see clear signals that the accession process is moving forward.
madam president, whether we like it or not, turkey is our neighbour and will be in the future. what could be more normal than to seek a good neighborly, mutually beneficial relationship? a good neighbour respects commitments made respects human rights, media freedom, does not react aggressively to any criticism. i expect turkey to respect the agreement reached on migrants and not to allow the creation of new migration routes after the restriction of the current balkan route. it is in our interest to support the european path of turkish civil society and to develop mutually beneficial relations in the economy, energy, tourism, culture, etc. however, this time it also passes through the reminder of the existing turkish citizens of bulgarian historical origin, for example in the regions of eastern thrace, around the town of pehlivankhoy, known by the bulgarian name pavlov, in the region of bandurma in asia minor on the sea of marmara and others. respect for their rights requires ensuring access to bulgarian language training, bulgarian media and freedom of self-determination without the threat of repression. turkey should also influence azerbaijan to find a peaceful solution to the resurgent conflict over karabakh. (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
a question asked by raising a blue card. dear colleague, how would you comment on turkey's compliance with the agreement given the fact that just last night our border police caught 97 illegal immigrants crossing from the turkish side to the bulgarian side? that's my first question, and the second is how would you comment on turkey's unacceptable interference in our internal affairs through the engineering of bulgarian political projects inside bulgaria?
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. mr. jambazki, it has always been the policy of neighbors to have their own intelligence and machines or instruments of influence in neighboring countries, it is the job of both our services and our political elite to oppose such interference, whether from turkey, whether from russia or from anywhere. as regards compliance with the agreement, as i said in my statement, i expect turkey to seriously prevent the emergence of a new route to the balkans.
mr president, 150 years ago, the great bulgarian and european poet hristo botev, from whose line my ancestors and my sons trace their roots, called ottoman turkey the "hospital of europe". botev died fighting for freedom from a turkish bullet. turkey has been europe's 'hospital' for seven centuries, but it wants to be part of europe. today, dozens of people think that turkey is keeping the european countries dependent on gas, on the southern corridor and on refugees and immigrants, and i say the opposite. today turkey is dependent on us. turkey depends on our money, our markets, our will, turkey has no other friends. america, russia, iran, syria, israel are all against her and erdogan as well. now is the time for the european union to choose what turkey wants for the future and bulgaria is the only european country that has freed itself from turkish slavery, knows turkey well, its mistakes and its problems. bulgaria can be a real leader in the subsequent negotiations europe turkey.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this year's resolution on turkey's progress is completely unacceptable. first of all, i am shocked by the fact that the european parliament welcomes the initiative to make turkish an official language of the european union. this must not and cannot be allowed to happen, because it is a threat to the sovereignty of european countries, a threat to the national security of my country and it will have irreversible consequences. secondly, we support the unification of cyprus, which is not supported by our colleagues in cyprus themselves. have we forgotten that turkey occupies greek cyprus? is it right to interfere drastically in their internal affairs? thirdly, the agreement with turkey is totally unacceptable. the european parliament has remained silent on the disregard for the rule of law and the violation of fundamental rights in exchange for dubious cooperation with ankara on refugees. it's all hypocrisy. do you not see that turkey itself is organizing and directing the refugee flows and that it is sabotaging and twisting the hands of the european union. fourth, turkey is interfering in the internal affairs of my country by organizing political parties. fifth, nowhere in the resolution is it mentioned that turkey is cooperating with the islamic state, helping the terrorist organization to procure foreign fighters, equipment and personnel. there are other reasons why i will vote against this resolution, but the main one is that turkey has no place in the european union and i will vote against it.
member of the commission. mr president, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. thank you again for this enlightening debate. i think that everyone here today agrees on one thing, namely that turkey is a strategic partner for the european union. this is due to the geostrategic location, this is due to the number of inhabitants. it is therefore clear that the european union has a very vital interest in finding a sensible form of cooperation here. cooperation with turkey has - and this is obvious - its ups and downs. but it is also clear that this cooperation must be very comprehensive. and the situation with turkey is complex. for example, it is very important in the economic field, which has hardly been mentioned today, because europe is by far turkey's most important economic and investment partner. we have about 600 000 employees in europe who are employed by turkish companies. turkey is europe's sixth most important partner. so it is necessary to find a reasonable form of cooperation here. the upgrading of the customs union, for example, is therefore an important task which we have been working on intensively for over a year and a half. the current challenge of the refugee crisis has given this form of cooperation a new impetus, and this is also quite obvious. we have developed an action plan that includes a number of different elements. visa liberalisation is an issue, and visa liberalisation has been on the agenda. the aim was and is to speed up this question. but visa liberalisation does not mean that the next step is automatically accession, as is sometimes assumed. because we have visa liberalisation with many countries around the world, and yet no one is thinking about this country becoming a member. on the other hand, yes, we have a mandate from the european council to conduct accession negotiations here. this is an open mandate since 2005. we are called upon to conduct these negotiations and to reach a result, because the mandate says: we must conduct negotiations open to results. and, frankly, it is my professional prerogative to bring such negotiations to an end. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have heard many times today how important it is to address and take account of the rule of law in turkey and to ensure that it is upheld. but i can also tell you that this is only possible if we have accession negotiations, because only then will we have leverage, because only then can we make demands. it is a qualitative difference whether i am negotiating accession or whether i am dealing with my neighbour and identifying common points. the commission has a duty to do this, and we have an obligation to do it at this stage. i have therefore noted with interest the comments made by count lambsdorff and others. but, as i said, this is something that is not our job at the moment, but it is our job to implement our mandates, to ensure that we have stability in the region. and i believe that this can only be ensured by having a very close network of cooperation with turkey. this can then also ensure that the current refugee problem, for example, can be addressed and solved in an appropriate way. i can also take this opportunity to tell you that the turkey facility has already started. the occasional statement from turkey that she has not seen a penny is simply not true. it is correct in that we do not pay turkey, but we finance projects in turkey that serve to cover the additional costs and expenses of turkey in terms of accommodation, food, school attendance and to make a significant contribution, including a contribution that the refugees, especially in eastern turkey, have a possibility to stay in the region in order to return immediately to syria, if the security and political situation permits. we are therefore concentrating our expenditure on ensuring that we use the funds appropriately here, primarily in eastern anatolia. initial activities have been launched in this respect. we have spent some 55 million euros to ensure that 350 000 people have food for at least six months. the european union has already made a major contribution to the development of the european union. these are the things that are essential. we should focus on these, and they also help to improve the mutual trust between turkey and europe. there's no question that there's sand in the gearbox. but between partners, between neighbours, it is necessary to have a relationship of trust. we should be interested in that together. and as things develop in the future, the negotiations just happen.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, i am very happy to be here. let me first of all thank you very much for this very interesting debate and also for the timely exchange of views, which demonstrates that we in many respects share both many hopes and concerns with regard to turkey. it is important in my view to remember that the eu and turkey share many ties and that our relationship goes back way longer than the current migration crisis. closer cooperation is good for both turkey and the eu, and the eu was and will continue to be an important anchor for turkey’s political and economic reforms. to be clear, as has been mentioned several times, we are not linking migration and accession talks. these are separate issues. as we have set out, we are aware of existing shortcomings and we share your concerns about negative trends in the areas of rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. we are firm and we are clear about this. let me stress once more that we continue to follow these and other developments such as the situation in the south-east closely, and that we will continue to bring up our concerns in all our meetings and at all levels with turkey. on the issue of visa liberalisation, the commissioner already touched upon this: there will be no shortcut. as we have agreed in our common statement with turkey, visa requirements for turkish citizens can be lifted by the end of june this year provided that all benchmarks have been met. whether that will materialise, of course, depends on turkey and the progress it makes. a few words in closing on the 18 march agreement. in my view the agreement has the potential to be a major step towards finding a viable and legal european solution to the migration crisis. it is not going to be a silver bullet. it is not going to be a magic solution, but it is a step in the right direction and an important instrument. this will be done in accordance with the relevant international standards and by respecting the principle of non-refoulement. it is not plain sailing – we are all aware of this, and we are not outsourcing our problems. it is still too early to assess the concrete effects of this agreement, as the concrete measures to implement it only became truly operational as of 4 april. but let me be clear: it is in all our interests that this is successful.
written. turkey is a very important partner of the eu, a member of the g20, a regional power and a key player for regional stability, and in particular for peace in the middle east. that is why turkey as a partner must be part of the solution to the migration crisis. turkey has repeatedly tried to raise its status from accession to membership negotiations, and since 2005 has been conducting accession negotiations, which have stalled since 2013 until the beginning of this major refugee-migration crisis. it has become not only more accepting but also a reference for how to bring about a controlled influx of migrants. it has a very specific and demanding environment, and just as it is able to control the entry of refugees and migrants into the country, so turkey is expected to control their exit. this is very important in the aegean sea where the greek islands are very close to the turkish coast and where, as we know, a huge number of tragedies have occurred in recent months. the eu has also committed to supporting the implementation of the eu's migration strategy, including the implementation of the eu's migration strategy, and to supporting the implementation of the eu's migration strategy. in recent years, turkey has shown only partial progress, but i am convinced that it is extremely important at this point to continue reforms related to the rule of law, freedom of the media and freedom of expression.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me first of all welcome the steady progress albania has made in addressing the five key priorities for the opening of accession negotiations. these are positive signals, showing that albania is on the right path, and we encourage it to continue these efforts. in addition, we welcome the adoption of the decriminalisation legislation which should enhance citizens’ trust in their political representatives and public institutions. we now look forward to concrete steps and results for its effective implementation. at the same time, i would like to stress that significant challenges lie ahead and further efforts to fulfil the key priorities are still needed. in particular, it will now be essential to swiftly adopt the judicial reform package in line with the venice commission’s opinion. judicial reform is key to further forward movement on albania’s eu accession process. progress is also needed to fight corruption as well as organised crime. a solid track record of proactive investigations, prosecutions and final convictions, at all levels, needs to be established. let me also reiterate the need for effective legislative and policy measures to reinforce the protection of human rights and anti-discrimination policies, including the equal treatment of all minorities. as you know, the european council will consider the opening of accession negotiations once albania has met the five key priorities. the council has invited the commission to report on these key priorities in a comprehensive and detailed manner in addition to its 2016 report. let me underline that a constructive and sustainable dialogue between the government and the opposition on eu-related reforms will be vital for the success of these endeavours. i would like to commend albania on its full alignment with the eu’s common foreign and security policy. in closing, let me point out that we are closely monitoring the situation in albania with regard to the migration crisis and the possible development of an alternative balkan route across the sea to italy.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like first of all to thank the rapporteur knut fleckenstein for his input and coordination efforts, which resulted in a very balanced text. the resolution not only captures the progress that albania has made over the past months but also the challenges that lie ahead in order to move the country closer to the european union. i particularly welcome the emphasis that this resolution places on the reform of the justice system. this will help to embed the rule of law in the country. strengthening efficiency and professionalism throughout this sector while striking the right balance between independence and accountability is a key challenge. as the resolution has emphasised, the preparatory work carried out so far on this important dossier is rather solid. political parties should now engage in a decisive, constructive dialogue and finalise the reform. this is a long-overdue development that is in the interest of all citizens. adapting to judicial reform is a crucial opportunity for the country as a whole which is too precious to be subject to any party political manoeuvring. i expect constructive cross-party cooperation from both the ruling majority and the opposition, as this reform should be seen by all political actors as a win-win opportunity. the last mile is always the hardest, especially when we are in the final stage of a very comprehensive and slow reform process. but this is a path worth completing. i made this point very clearly during my recent visit to tirana for the high-level dialogue on the five key priorities for the opening of accession negotiations. negotiations opened at the end of march. let me also point out that, beyond judicial reform, the resolution also provides a clear review of progress on other matters related to the rule of law, in particular the fight against organised crime and corruption. albania needs to demonstrate further progress with a view to establishing a solid track record of investigations, prosecutions and convictions in the fight against organised crime and corruption at all levels. high-level corruption needs to be tackled more effectively. the same goes for the challenge posed by organised crime. more results are needed to dismantle organised criminal networks that operate locally, regionally and globally. i would also like to commend the emphasis that the resolution attaches to a number of processes that fall outside the scope of the five key priorities but are nevertheless crucial to consolidate the credibility of the state and its institutions. albania urgently needs to finalise the reform of the electoral system, aligning all the relevant legislation to the recommendations issued by the osce/odihr. moreover, integrity throughout the public sector needs to be further strengthened. a lot has been achieved already through ongoing public administration reform. in addition, the process of so-called decriminalisation needs to advance. both civil servants and elected officials should be subject to the scrutiny mechanism foreseen in the law, and sanctions applied whenever necessary. the commission maintains its strong commitment to support albania’s efforts to advance further on its path towards european integration.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, colleagues, i thank rapporteur flekenstein and the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation in drafting the resolution on albania's progress in 2015. on behalf of the committee of the regions, i would like to express our support for the resolution. i congratulate the albanian authorities on the progress made over the past year, especially with regard to reforms in the five key areas identified by the commission: reform of the public administration, strengthening the judiciary, fighting corruption and organised crime and strengthening fundamental rights and freedoms. i am glad that the resolution pays particular attention to most of these areas, because they are the foundation of any properly functioning rule of law. unfortunately, this year's resolution is very laconic about the problems and rights of national minorities. as you are well aware, national minorities are the most vulnerable groups in the balkan countries. according to our state agency for bulgarians abroad, in the municipalities of mala prespa, golo burdo and gora live between 40 and 50 thousand bulgarians by self-determination. they are not recognised as a national minority by the albanian authorities, which places them at a very disadvantage compared to other minority communities. i call on the albanian authorities to recognize the bulgarian minority, because by guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of all citizens, albania will show that it is ready for membership in the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, minister, colleagues, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr flexenstein, for his helpful cooperation on the progress report on albania. over the past year, albania has made significant progress in its european integration and today the country plays an important role in regional stability with its constructive positions in the region. in the field of foreign policy, albania has fulfilled a considerable part of the political criteria for membership of the european union, and this is clearly stated in the report we are discussing today. however, we need to continue to call on and encourage the country's leading political forces for a more constructive and sustained political dialogue between them on eu-related reforms. political consensus on vital reforms is essential for the country's further progress, and confrontation can undermine this process. the report clearly outlines the challenges facing albania, as well as some of the positive steps the government has taken to address them. serious efforts are needed to reform the judicial system. the country has shown political will to fight corruption, which together with organised crime remains the biggest problem facing albania. these vices of the young democracies of the balkans are eroding the state. on economic reforms, the government has continued its work, but constructive reforms must be accelerated. as a result of the low competitiveness of the economy, unemployment remains high and the gray sector accounts for a substantial proportion. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to call on the authorities in the country to continue the reforms that have been initiated and to consolidate the achievements in the key priorities that are so necessary for the opening of accession negotiations.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome albania's progress in economic reform, the fight against radicalism and terrorism and measures against the recruitment of fighters by the islamic state. the european union cannot be completed without the full integration of the western balkan countries. respect for minority rights is one of the most important criteria that candidate countries must fulfil in order to be able to join our union. in this regard, albania must not allow discrimination against ethnic minorities, including the bulgarian, the only unrecognised historical minority that has been waiting for this recognition for decades. in 1932, according to a resolution voted by the second balkan conference in istanbul, the two sides signed a final protocol, which stated the following: article 1: the albanian delegation recognizes the existence of a bulgarian minority in albania. due to the change of governments and the coming world war, the resolution was never ratified. the question has been open ever since. i appeal to the albanian officials to accept the decision on this matter. i call on you to recognize the bulgarian minority and let us together contribute to the albanian citizens becoming european citizens.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, in the last 25 years, albania has undergone substantial changes and is firmly on its democratic path. let us give credit to the efforts and aspirations of the albanian people for the country's accession to the eu, a project which will not be completed unless all the countries of the western balkans become members. let us support with this resolution the demands of the albanians for the reform of their country, for the rule of law, for the successful prosecution of organized crime and corruption. there is no doubt that an independent judiciary is a cornerstone of the country's progress towards the eu and the reforms needed to achieve such a judiciary, as mandated by the venice commission, must be met with political will, civic support and eu assistance. the other reforms under the 5 key priorities - electoral system, free media, transparent public administration and strengthening of basic civil rights and freedoms - are equally important. for example, the bulgarian minority in the country is not yet recognized, which may become a condition for eu membership. it is clear to all of us that albania has serious and difficult obstacles to overcome on the road to progress towards european membership, but an albania in the eu strategically means more regional stability.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank my colleague le grip and the other shadow rapporteurs for their successful work and congratulate them on the result achieved. the final text reflects the compromise that the rapporteur managed to negotiate with the commission and council representatives during the four trilogues. this proposal is of the utmost importance. protection against the unlawful acquisition, disclosure and use of trade secrets is of key importance. the legislation will discourage industrial espionage and unfair competition, especially as regards practices originating from outside the european union. this directive takes into account the strategic importance of know-how for growth, competitiveness and innovation in europe, while protecting labour mobility, freedom of expression and information. it also provides basic guarantees for persons who have lodged complaints against it. i believe that the final text reflects the position of the european parliament and i congratulate the rapporteur once again on the result achieved.
mr president, in this very important and informative report there is one specific call to the commission regarding the fund for european aid to the most deprived and the european social fund. the report asks for these two funds, as very important instruments, to be focused on alleviating a totally unacceptable situation. can you tell us, madam commissioner, in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework, what you are prepared to do to see that these funds are not only maintained but to ensure a very serious increase in both the resources and the implementing measures, so that there is the beginning of a change in the situation which we are now registering of more than 5 million people being added to the ranks of those at risk in poverty and all these totally unthinkable statistics about people freezing to death and not being able to pay their bills?
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the economic situation in the eu, it is becoming increasingly difficult to talk about overcoming poverty. in recent years, the cost of basic goods and services has risen dramatically. for countries like bulgaria, where the standard of living is much lower than the eu average, this has led not just to increased household expenditure, but to the inability to use basic public services such as heating, transport, health care. the longterm unemployed and the elderly were particularly affected. to these we must add the high levels of youth unemployment. to achieve the europe 2020 goals of reducing the number of people affected by poverty and social exclusion, we need bold measures, but also action. member states need to use the european structural and investment funds more effectively to tackle energy poverty, expand the fund for the most deprived and develop active employment policies. last but not least, it is necessary to develop 21st century skills among young people, entrepreneurship training and awareness raising to start and finance their own initiatives, as well as reducing the administrative burden on them, because only through a strong and functioning economy can we achieve the goal of fighting poverty.
madam chairman, colleagues, i agree that today is an important day for privacy. i voted for this report because i believe that we need a strong regulatory framework to protect personal data. on this subject, we have to remain vigilant, especially when we look at the recent events in europe, the events related to the leak of files related to offshore zones. personal data is available and it's a lot of data, and so you can't always know, even if you're careless, what might happen to it. most importantly, the new rules introduce a liability regulation and when there is a breach, it will be sanctioned. so this report is of great importance to the lives of ordinary citizens who would be affected by such abuses.
madam president, i fully agree with the text of this report and therefore voted for it with conviction. this directive relates specifically to police judicial activities. that is why it is all the more important to have a strong and clear legal framework, as voted on today, guaranteeing the highest possible level of protection. we need better cooperation and a more critical approach to the collection, sharing and transfer of personal data, which in addition needs to be better demarcated by the proposed and voted differentiated categorisation. there can be no question of compulsory transfers if these conditions are not met.
in writing. ‒ in the new digital age, it is our moral duty to protect the rights and freedoms of eu citizens. we should propose a general data protection regulation that creates confidence in citizens, gives them the right to transfer their data to another service provider and protects their personal data. therefore, in order to be fully effective and efficient for citizens, the new data directive should set out clear rights and limitations on data transfers for the purpose of prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences. thus, in this manner, data transfers for policing and judicial purposes among law enforcement authorities of member states will above all respect citizens’ fundamental right to privacy, and the fight against terrorism, cybercrime and cross-border crime will be well organised.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i wholeheartedly support this report. this proposal aims to establish clear and strict rules for the collection, use and protection of booking data of passengers travelling to, from and within the european union. in view of the increasing number of people trafficked, and following the recent attacks in paris and brussels, which have seen a real war within europe, it has become clear that we need strong measures to increase the security of the european union as a whole, and in particular the protection of its external borders. this is extremely important in view of the situation we find ourselves in.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because we are living in a very insecure world – a world in which cross—border organised crime and terrorism are taking place. therefore, we should support use of passenger name record (pnr) data at eu level in order to prove, detect and investigate suspects involved in illegal cross—border activities. in this regard, it is valuable to emphasise the fact that a common eu pnr system would harmonise member states’ legal provisions and avoid legal uncertainty and security gaps, whilst at the same time safeguarding data protection. however, we should be convinced that member states will inform passengers about the collection of pnr data and about their civil rights.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to regulate at european level the collection, sharing and analysis of air passenger reservation data has been on the table since 2011. my position hasn't changed since then. it has always been that the pnr (passenger name record) directive is a necessary step for preventing and detecting serious crime and terrorism. until recently, there was a parliamentary majority against the adoption of this directive. the opposition was provoked by serious concerns about the collection and storage of people's data. in response, the text we adopted pays particular attention to the strict measures for the protection of personal data. i welcome the adoption of this directive and believe that it will increase the security of european citizens. this vote is a major victory for meps who for more than seven years have not given up their demands for more effective work and communication between the security services of the individual member states. the directive should now also be adopted swiftly in the council, so that member states can start the transposition processes into national law as soon as possible.
in writing. i am voting in favour of a single passenger name record (pnr) to facilitate the tracing of suspected terrorists, drug traffickers and other criminals travelling to and within the community. pnr data is information provided by air passengers when booking a ticket and held by air carriers. they will provide the secret services with detailed passport and bank details of their passengers. the specialised agencies of all 28 member states will have access to the national lists of each of them. the data will be kept for five years.
in writing. – the threat of terrorist attacks in the eu is at its highest level in 10 years. following the recent terrorist attacks in brussels and paris, counter-terrorism has become of highest priority in the eu, stressing the urgent need for much stronger cooperation, exchange of information and a coordinated response. although this directive is not the solution to all our problems with terrorism, it is an important step forward. it is a useful and necessary tool in the fight against terrorism and serious crime and, therefore, i voted in favour of the new directive regulating the use of passenger name record data in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the pnr directive because european socialists have always seen pnr as an important tool to fight organised crime and terrorism but have criticised compliance with fundamental freedoms and personal data protection. now our voice has finally been heard and the data protection package was coupled with the pnr one to ensure an adequate balance. pnr alone will not solve all of our security problems. however, it is a positive first step towards enhanced investigative and intelligence cooperation between european member states and information sharing under the existing rules. europe’s response to the security challenges we face does not end with pnr. strengthening europe’s external borders, for example, is essential in order to maintain the schengen area. but, ultimately, it is imperative that we strengthen our collective ability to prevent further terrorist attacks and provide the security and protection which our citizens legitimately expect from us. however, more surveillance alone will not solve our problems. european socialists and democrats are clearly saying ‘no’ to massive surveillance of eu citizens. we support targeted, risk-based use of passenger data but at the same time we are determined to ensure adequate data protection.
madam president, i supported the report by mrs le grip because i believe that the regulation and protection of trade secrets and know-how is of the utmost importance for the development of european business and for the promotion of competitiveness in europe. the present proposal is of the utmost importance as it will discourage industrial espionage and unfair competition, which are particularly difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to deal with. the protection of labour mobility, freedom of expression and information and fundamental guarantees for whistleblowers are all elements that make the proposal highly valuable.
in writing. – the unauthorised use of confidential business information by persons other than the holder is unfair practice and an infringement of trade secrets. whether through thorough and costly research, long experience, or creativity, companies constantly develop information which can help them to perform better, faster or at lower cost. since european companies are increasingly exposed to the misappropriation of trade secrets, i support their protection and, therefore, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report by mrs tarrand because i think that the increase envisaged in the ep's draft budget does not reflect reality. the figures show an increase of 3.9% compared with last year's budget, with the largest share of this €1 910 073 000 being earmarked for new security measures. i agree that in today's situation it's important to keep our security level up, but i think it needs to be reorganized in a more functional way before we put any extra resources into it. i also believe that money can be saved by optimising the work of part of parliament's administration by rationalising language and translation services.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on turkey's progress because i strongly disagree with the views expressed in it. i don't welcome the fact that turkish is an official language! i do not welcome the agreement between turkey and the eu! turkey is twisting the eu's arms and it is itself managing the refugee flows! i don't think turkey is engaged enough in the fight against isis. turkey is supporting isis.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the report because turkey is not only a candidate country for eu membership, but also our strategic partner. it is important to note that in recent years turkey has been hit by one of the deadliest waves of terrorism in our time, while at the same time the country has been hosting the largest refugee population in the world and has been experiencing instability from the ongoing conflict in neighbouring syria. namely in the context of a complicated security situation, we should acknowledge turkey’s commitment for reforms and alienation with the acquis. although in slow pace, progress has been achieved in the areas of company law, financial services, financial control, the customs union and trans-european networks. in this regard, turkey’s continual commitment to the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria should be viewed as an opportunity for turkey to strengthen its institutions and continue its process of democratisation and modernisation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on albania's progress because i believe that this country is making real progress in the eu accession process, with many reforms in key areas. but my support is not unconditional. albania must recognize the bulgarian minority living in the regions of mala prespa, galo burdo and gora, which will win my full support.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the progress of bosnia and herzegovina because it contains very important recommendations to the country with a view to the accession process. some progress has been made in the reform of the judiciary and the fight against organised crime and corruption, but real results are still needed in these areas. in addition, bosnia and herzegovina faces many challenges in terms of human rights and the protection of minorities. in conclusion, i would like to say that bosnia and herzegovina is an extremely complex country and we need to weigh all our recommendations very carefully.
in writing. ‒ 21 years after the dayton peace agreement, bosnia and herzegovina is teetering on the edge of democracy and making little progress on its path to the european union. the country's complex ethno-religious composition continues to be a major focus of political opposition and a major obstacle to reaching consensus on the reform agenda. although the european union has adopted a new approach towards bosnia and herzegovina, whereby the stabilisation and association agreement entered into force on 1 june 2015, the authorities in the country must continue to demonstrate determination in implementing institutional and socio-economic reforms. the application for membership of the european union and the first positive commission report on bosnia and herzegovina were a welcome step in this regard. that's why i think the country should make the best of this opportunity. i believe that the european union is the only actor that can provide the necessary impetus for development. now is the time for political and religious leaders to refrain from divisive nationalist rhetoric that polarizes society. political dialogue must continue and the government must clearly demonstrate its willingness to put the country's citizens at the centre of reform.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it creates a link between poverty and energy, in complete disregard of the other factors that need to be taken into account. in reality, immediate action is required without offering lasting solutions that address the bigger picture. on top of that, it proposes a minimum income framework, while at the same time obviously ignoring the specificities of the different member states, which makes it impossible to apply the same minimum standard across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the text because one of the five headline targets of europe 2020 is to reduce poverty by lifting at least 20 million people out of the risk of poverty or social exclusion by 2020. in order to achieve these goals, firstly we should work to increase the incomes of poor households by improving the effectiveness of social and employment policies. secondly, we should effectively reduce the household costs of poor households; in particular we should fight energy poverty through targeting existing renewable and energy efficiency projects on energy poor households. in light of this, we should work to make energy affordable to all eu citizens. i believe that the fight against poverty in practice is a fight for the future of the eu and millions of europeans, thereby it is our moral duty to lead it to successful end.
in writing. – the number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion has increased in most member states, bulgaria being one of them. overall, 24.5 % of the eu population were at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2013. the primary aim of the report is to see how energy policies and consumer prices can have impact on poverty, especially with regard to disadvantaged groups. there is no doubt that reducing, and even abolishing, poverty should be on top of our agendas. hence, i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported my colleague deva's report because i share his view that private initiative is the main engine for the development of an economy. support for it in developing countries will lead to an accelerated transition from developing countries to developed countries. the problem is also noted that almost always the aid is received by the large firms, and smes are usually subject to more regulation and pressure, while at the same time they employ more than half of the employed in these countries, which is a problem that needs serious attention. an example of how to attract investment in these countries is also shown, namely through public-private partnerships - a way that has proven effective. i hope that the measures in this report will help those countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the resolution because it clearly recognises the importance of the private sector in development and the primary objective of eu development cooperation in reducing poverty. the private sector has the potential to contribute to a sustainable, efficient and long—term development, because economic development is a key to eradicating poverty. of course, this aim could be completed only by promoting human rights and by strengthening democracy, good governance and the rule of law. the european union should strengthen corporate social responsibility, and the public-private partnerships within the post-2015 development agenda should have a strong focus on poverty reduction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are once again witnessing a debate on illegal immigration, and once again it seems as if we are speaking different languages, even though there are translations in all the official languages. however, it seems to me that there are colleagues in this room who don't understand the difference between refugees and illegal immigrants and don't make that distinction. so much the worse for them, then they are surprised and cry when there are attacks in paris and brussels, but that's another topic. in addition to the many social problems, the growing threat of terrorist attacks, the crisis of illegal immigrants has a strong impact on the european economy, in particular the transport sector. international carriers are extremely concerned that if the crisis deepens, more and more member states will tighten border controls, and rightly so, with a negative impact on the functioning of the internal market and leading to millions of losses for the transport sector. the european commission estimates that the losses will be between €5 billion and €18 billion, and that this will increase the cost of transport services and discourage people from travelling across europe. in order to preserve schengen and therefore the functioning of the internal market, we must strengthen control of our external borders, such as the bulgarian border, and we must end this hypocrisy of some countries being accepted into the schengen area and others not, because for us bulgarians it is no longer important to be in this area, because it brings us nothing. we should not conclude shameful agreements with turkey and ask it to protect our borders, as we did today, by the way, when we voted to make turkish an official language of the european union - a common mistake, but another time. only then will we consolidate the free movement of people and goods within the union. (the speaker agreed to answer one question on the 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. madam president, that was not a question, but rather a finding, i.e. a breach of the rules of the european parliament, but i will still answer you. come to our border, our border between bulgaria and turkey, and then we'll talk about who are refugees, who are illegal immigrants and so on. if you're saying that a lot of young men in their thirties with military looks and training are mothers with children, i think you're wrong. but still, here you go!
mr. chairman, colleagues, thank you to your colleagues for bringing up such an important, interesting and timely issue. technology is advancing at an incredible rate, and we need to keep up with it. i think autonomous driving is going to be a fundamental revolution in the automotive and transportation sector, and we need to start preparing for it now. the european union is one of the leading forces in innovation and technology, which also obliges us to lead in proposals to regulate the movement of this new type of vehicle. in the automotive sector, and in my country, autonomous driving will help to improve road safety, but safety depends on new road rules anyway.
rapporteur.– mr president, let me first of all welcome president hoyer, thank commissioner moscovici, and simply convey my very deep gratitude to all those who worked on this report. as you have seen, this is a comprehensive analysis, it takes a lot of technical work. so both to the shadow rapporteurs, and to all those from the secretariats that worked on this report, i would like to extend my very heartfelt gratitude. now as to the substance, in the light of the extraordinary challenges confronting the european union and member states at present, it is even more urgent that the bank fully commits to implementing its core task: to support projects that contribute to the balanced development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion. the fact that in 2014 the eib successfully implemented one of its most ambitious business plans, amounting to eur 80.3 billion, is undoubtedly a most important achievement. however, virtually 60% of all projects signed in 2014 were allocated to the top five eu economies. in this regard, there is an urgent request for the bank to substantially step up its technical assistance and financial advice in order to overcome insufficient project-generating capacity and low levels of borrowing in some member states. the draft resolution also notes the lack of meaningful follow-up to previous parliament resolutions. in this regard, i would like to highlight some such issues and invite president hoyer and commissioner moscovici to respond. regarding transparency and work with intermediaries, already in 2013 parliament called on the eib to refrain from cooperation with financial intermediaries having a negative track record in terms of transparency, tax evasion or aggressive tax planning practices and abusive transfer pricing, or concerning substantial local ownership. it also encouraged the eib to make funding contingent upon the disclosure of country-by-country tax-relevant data and called on the bank, jointly with the commission, to establish a stringent public list of criteria, ensuring the proper selection of financial intermediaries. regarding parliament-bank cooperation, parliament repeats its call for regular dialogue between its relevant committees and the bank, similar to the practices with the ecb, and strongly encourages that an interinstitutional agreement be concluded without further delay. as to bank supervision, another previous call envisages putting in place effective prudential banking supervision of the eib. regrettably this and other calls have not been taken up by either the commission or the eib so far. as for the european fund for strategic investments, the draft resolution specifically calls on the eib to ensure that the efsi is not indirectly used as a means of increasing the eib’s capital, to regularly review the bank’s involvement in efsi, and to show that the conditions on additionality laid down in article 5 of the efsi regulation have been met. so far it remains to be demonstrated that the fund is in fact generating additional investments beyond the usual financing arrangements. i do trust that this resolution will contribute to further enhancing the key role of the eib, as the bank of the european union, in achieving the union’s strategic political objectives in the immediate future and in the longer-term perspective.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for the very fruitful, high-quality and very calm debate we have had today, which shows that we are really dealing with a project of general interest. the current economic and financial situation calls for determined political action. we are convinced that the eib's activities are a crucial component of the european union's efforts to restore sustainable growth and employment levels in europe, in particular through the partnership between the commission and the eib in implementing the €315 billion investment plan for europe, the juncker plan. i welcome again the report by parliament on the activities of the eib and i am pleased that fruitful cooperation between the commission and the eib is continuing. a few words on two subjects which have been frequently raised: transparency and the fight against tax evasion, cohesion and convergence. i will also speak about greece, since this subject has been raised, although it is not quite in the system, but i know that it is of great interest to werner hoyer. on transparency and tax evasion, i would remind you that the commission adopted in january 2016 a package to combat tax evasion, which reflects the discussions that took place in the framework of the oecd and the g20 - this is what is known as beps - but also the discussions in the european parliament on the fight against aggressive tax planning. for the commission - and this is what i said at the informal ecofin council in amsterdam eight days ago - we had to go further and this package was a package, a global package which had to be adopted as such. i am really counting on the dutch presidency to do this, and rightly so. in this context, the commission is working intensively with the eib to explore how the eib's policies could evolve to reflect the new measures we will be implementing. i would like to make a few comments on the subject of cohesion and convergence. we want the convergence of the european economy, of the euro area. this is our priority. the euro area is a tremendous success. it has protected the economies that have made this choice, but there is still a problem of dynamics, which is also a problem of fair sharing. the eib and the juncker plan are major tools for the recovery of the european economy, but we cannot have a political criterion in the choice of investments. of course it is preferable, of course it is desirable - and of course the eib and the commission are working on this - that the projects selected cover a whole range of sectors. it is obviously desirable - the eib and the commission are obviously working on it - that all countries should be covered by the juncker plan and i think it is very good that we already have 22, 23 or 25 countries already covered by projects. but the logic was a logic of projects. it's a quality piece of work. the aim is to encourage those who are able to innovate and those who are able to carry out projects in the sectors which are the priorities of the juncker plan. projects, i mean here, must be chosen for their own merits. they must prepare for the future and it is not doing any country any favors to think that there must necessarily be some form of credit spraying. there is a capacity for invention and innovation in all countries of the european union, regardless of their size. that is what must be sought. a word on greece, since the subject has been raised, i do not want to evade it, we are in the middle of the news. i think, and the commission thinks, that we are really in a position to get close to an agreement. there is no doubt that one or more steps still have to be taken, but much has been done and we must not pretend that a new crisis is brewing, when we have come very close to defining the necessary measures and the necessary reforms. i hope we can reach an agreement quickly. the commission will in any case be very determined to do so. we must work on this with great calm, with great objectivity and with a shared will that a reformed, a strengthened greece will return to growth and be able to create jobs. the juncker plan and the eib, which is a major contributor, play a key role here. yes, we need growth all over europe, all over the euro area, and to do that, we really need to make sure that the reforms come through in greece, quickly, in a very determined way. in conclusion, i would say that the juncker plan is on track for us, in the sense that the projects financed - and this is the criterion - are really additional projects, in the sense that they are projects with a higher risk than before. i am accustomed to saying - werner hoyer knows this - that the main criterion for the success of the plan is not so much quantity as quality. the question is, is there a culture shift? is there a change in the culture of economies, with the ability to carry projects, and a change in the culture of european policies, in what we do at the commission, in what we do with the eib, to make sure that it is risk that is encouraged? we must be vigilant, it is not about giving in self-satisfaction. i think that the juncker plan does not cover the whole subject and i am inclined to think that if it succeeds - which is what i want and what i believe - it will have to be extended. this is not a three-year case, but a much longer case. our investment deficit won't stop in mid-2018. but without being complacent, i think that with this plan we are doing a useful job of filling the investment gap that europe is suffering from. this is again the key to raising our potential growth, raising our actual growth, creating many more jobs, reducing unemployment. that is our common objective in all the benches of this house, in the commission, in the bank and in the member states. that is why, once again, we are faced with a debate which i regard as a debate of general interest.
president of the european investment bank. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking mr pirinski very much for his report and commissioner moscovici for his very close and fruitful cooperation and support, which we continue to enjoy. i think that more than 40 members of the european parliament have taken the floor today, and i am expected to answer each and every detailed question. i promise you that every issue that has been raised today will be answered by our services or by myself within the next couple of days or weeks, because you deserve the answers. let me concentrate on about seven points which i would like to raise. first of all, i would like to thank mr liberadzki - i think he is not here anymore, but i would still like to thank him - because he pointed out that this is the eu's bank, and we are the eu. if you mandate a bank in europe or outside europe with jobs that need to be done on behalf of europe, then you are well advised to give that job to the eu's bank to those whom you can control, steer and have influence over, and whom you can require to stick to the principles and criteria which the european union sets for lending and the granting of guarantees. in this context, i would like to say that greece is of course a country of specific concern to us, because we have seen over the last few years how difficult it is. we are the bank that was the strongest there before the crisis; we stayed there during the crisis - as the only one, practically; and we are very active now that the crisis is, hopefully, over soon. we have even changed the business model of the bank for the case of greece a little bit - our other centralized model for lending and granting of guarantees is not deployed in greece any more, because we have strengthened our presence on the ground as we want to reach the customers, the clients, the companies and the corporates directly with our staff. third: transparency, ncj policies, and everything that has to do with that. we have received the message and understood mr pirinski, and we will follow it up. we support the commission with all their efforts in this field. this is going to be very difficult in detail, because sometimes you move between the legitimate and the legal; sometimes the devil is in the use of illegitimate but legal means, and that sometimes poses very difficult challenges to a bank and to many other actors. sometimes you wish the legislator would step in and clarify the situation not only what is legal, but also what is legitimate. the next point is the interinstitutional agreement. i completely agree that it is high time to bring it to a conclusion i spoke to several members of the leadership of this european parliament today and we are resolved to bringing this to a conclusion very soon. i want to have that done before the summer break, because this issue should be discussed in substance after the summer break when we have analyses of what the first year of the juncker plan has brought. the key thing is and it has been raised by several people that we must make sure that we have a balanced approach to all member states of the european union. what does that mean? well, of course, the eu bank does not have quotas that is completely impossible, because we go for economically viable and sustainable projects and we observe criteria which are also ecological and of course social, and if these projects do not appear on the list of proposals, then there will not be such a programme. we will not give grants just in order to be present in the country if there is not a good project. but let us look at the realities, and i would like to remove the myth of a lack of balance in the activities of the bank in the european union. if you look at the total investment supported in 2015, the four countries with the highest percentage of activity are latvia with 13.8% of gdp, slovakia with 12.9%, greece with 11.4% and slovenia with 11.4%. at the end of the list you find romania with the 0.3%, bulgaria with 0.3%, ireland with 0.3% and the czech republic with 0.4%. now let's go to the exposure of the bank: where is the bank the most exposed? well, the highest exposure is in cyprus at 15.3% of gdp, slovenia at 11.7%, portugal at 11.0% and hungary 9.9%. at the end of the list are denmark at 1.1%, the netherlands at 1.7%, germany at 1.7% and the uk at 1.9%. this is the reality, and it shows the balance sheet of the bank as an expression of the spirit of solidarity in this european union. anything else is a myth. on the question of steel production in china: what we have heard today in the european parliament, unfortunately, is complete nonsense. the bank has never had and does not have any steel project in china, and the only one that has ever been brought to our attention as an idea by the chinese has been rejected by us. so it is a propaganda thing that we have heard here today; it is not supported by facts. i would like to conclude by saying, on social issues and social housing, that this is a very important point that we have sped up quite a bit, also in connection with the migration crisis, because migration solutions must not go to the detriment of those people in need who also need social housing. so, therefore, we see this as one big area where we have done some considerable stepping up of business. more can be done, however, also in combination or in cooperation with the member states or regions that are interested in that. probably, in some countries, it is not really known on the national level what we do on the regional level, in particular when it comes to migration and to social housing. finally, i would like to say: don't overdraw our capabilities. when the bank was founded in the 1950s in the treaties of rome, no one would have thought that we would one day be an sme bank. but nowadays we need this tool because of lack of access to finance for smes, and we used it for over 300,000 smes last year. that is 30% of our business volume. an additional business volume percentage of 27% is expected to go into climate-related lending. of course, everyone thinks that 11.15% or more of lending should go into innovation and research and development. if you add that up and then come also to the question of digitization, which we have not touched upon here today but which is the key ingredient for preserving or restoring europe's competitiveness in the next couple of years, you easily end up above 100%, and that can't work either. we have to have a balance in this respect as well. we are trying to achieve this with your help.
rapporteur.– madam president, may i join in the evaluation of this discussion as one that has been particularly interesting, substantial, substantive, and, i believe, indicative of the further actions that should be taken on behalf of the bank, the commission and parliament – all of us. permit me to highlight three issues. the first, of course, has to do with investment. commissioner moscovici has pointed out that this, after all, is the weak link in the expectations for a more rapid upturn in the growth rate and, in general, improving the employment and growth situation. there is one aspect which i would like to address at the very beginning, which has to do with cohesion and the distribution of investment resources. it might be true in relation to gdp, but the relationship – 60% to 5% and 40% to 23% – is a simple reflection of the facts of the signatures in 2014. those are the facts. the disappointments that have been voiced are a reflection that there is not a feeling that the activities of the investment bank are addressing vigorously enough those parts of the european union where the crisis has had its severest consequences. one of my colleagues has said that this call for a greater spread of resources goes against the activities of the bank as a bank. he has even challenged me by saying that the point i made is the product of political and country prejudices. i would simply like to refer to protocol 28 to the treaty, connected to article 3, which has to do with cohesion, and which very clearly states that the contracting parties: ‘reaffirm their conviction that the european investment bank should continue to devote the majority of resources to the promotion of economic, social and territorial cohesion and declare their willingness to review the capital needs of the european investment bank as soon as this is necessary for that purpose.’ i would say further that, after all, in these countries receiving far fewer resources there are a sufficient number of viable, profitable and effective investment projects, which, however, require on-the-spot additional active engagement by the bank and the services of the commission in generating them in the proper investment mode. this also has to do with the concerns relating to ecology and social aspects. this cannot be, so to speak, a ‘business as usual’ development of projects. i see that my time is up so i will name only two other urgent considerations. one was voiced by my colleagues from the committee on budgetary control. i have heard president hoyer commit to giving answers as soon as they are ready. i would invite the president to ask for a meeting of the commission and really take the initiative in addressing questions which have been on the table for a number of years. the third consideration has to do with the interaction with parliament. again, i believe that there is room for a rapid conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement and for the introduction of a regular process of parliamentary oversight, where the bank can make its case and give information and we can work out a positive way of going forward. i would like to thank president hoyer for his words regarding the report, as well as commissioner moscovici and all those who took part in the debate.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mrs georgieva, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make three points. the first is that the commission's spending of taxpayers' money is clearly reflected in the rate of error which is made, and that should remain a very important criterion precisely as to how satisfied taxpayers can be with the way the commission operates in relation to the budget. at the same time, it is clear that people are ultimately interested in how much and how their lives are changing, how much their job opportunities, their income, their security are improving thanks to the contribution of budgetary measures through the european commission. and i would like to point out here, and this is the second point, that mrs dlabaiova's report in this respect represents what i consider to be a good combination of attention and analysis on both sides of the evaluation of the commission's actions. i would like to thank her in this connection, and as one of the shadow speakers who sought to contribute to this report. the third point relates to an important aspect of the report, it is contained in paragraph 73 where there is an explicit call that citizens do not understand this error rate very well and that it is necessary for the european court of auditors, together with the commission, to try to achieve unity in the methodology for the evaluation of errors and omissions based on uniform reporting standards and procedures. this is very important to have an objective assessment of how well the funds are being spent.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr vaughan, for the work done on the 2014 discharge to the agencies. the budget of the agencies in 2014 is about eur 1.9 billion and they employ in different capacities almost 10 000 persons. on the positive side, there is an approach towards the introduction of performance-based budgeting in most of the agencies, increasing the level of implementation of the budget and promotion of their work to the citizens. nevertheless, there is still a need to improve the principles which would increase the value-added aspect and to identify possible improvements to the performance models currently applied in the agencies. conflicts of interest and transparency within the structures that spend the money of the european taxpayer is an important issue. while most of the agencies have taken the appropriate steps, there is still a need for overall improvement in the public sector and for a holistic approach. concerning communication and visibility, there is a need for the agencies to further strengthen their efforts to improve their communication policies. in order to raise awareness of their activities and achievements and to ensure that citizens are well informed about their work, they should expand their visibility through different social media tools. despite some discrepancies and the need for further improvements in certain fields, there is positive change in the functioning of the agencies. we expect a better performance of these structures, which are important for implementation of the european union policies.
madam chairman, i've heard colleagues say they're confused and angry by the numbers they're seeing. there's no need for such emotion, colleagues. it's normal at the end of the programming period, when there are more payments, there are more errors. this, of course, does not mean that we should not be suspicious and that we should not be critical. we should, but we can't see an enemy behind every tree. it is true that at this time when we are releasing budgetary responsibility, we hear relatively the same answers to relatively the same questions. the difference this year is that there is a team from the european commission that works well, is in dialogue and parliament's opinion is taken into account. but i also have a lot to ask for and i would like to see a clearer focus on approved payments next year. this is the only way to achieve the europe 2020 goals faster. this is the only way to achieve the objectives we have set out in the multiannual financial framework more quickly. since the beginning of my term, i've been working to reduce red tape. i wish we could put more effort into showing the people outside the door. that is what they expect from us, and that is what will happen when we base control of european funds on the risk of losing them, and that is what will happen when the beneficiaries who do poorly and who mix with european funds get more control than those who do well. only then can we relieve them. i am pleased that bulgaria was one of the first countries to apply the european commission's guidance on public procurement and to catch up with the backlog it had in 2013 and 2014 due to internal problems, and in 2015 it was one of the first countries to absorb and disburse european funds.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many problems that arise in the application of the brussels iia regulation. many issues affecting many families and the interests of their children. i'll stop at three of them. first and foremost, i call on the european commission to take the necessary measures to stop the vicious practice of adopting children without the consent of their biological parents in the european union. we have many cases like this in the uk that have become a business. secondly, we need to promote cooperation and exchange of information both between courts dealing with adoptions and between social services and national administrations of the member states. finally, i would like to emphasise the need to respect the cultural and social traditions of the different member states, because it is in the best interests of the child to remain in the circle of his family, even if it is not in the child's habitual residence. this is particularly important for young children who cannot express their views and for whom the concept of 'habitual residence' is relative.
in writing. mr president mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the number of children deprived of parental care who are placed in institutional care varies from country to country. unfortunately, the proportion of such children in europe is not small, despite unicef's recommendations to deinstitutionalize care. this is due both to socioeconomic factors and, to some extent, to the different legal frameworks for adoption in europe, which provide for different rules and deadlines. unfortunately, adoption procedures are often very cumbersome, especially in cases of transnational adoptions, where there is a lack of sufficient prior information on the related requirements, deadlines and procedures. i believe that the commission should do everything possible to improve awareness of adoption procedures and to assist member states by exchanging good practice in this regard. i also believe that the commission and the member states should pay particular attention to prevention by developing policies to support families raising children with the greatest possible concern for their well-being, especially with regard to families at risk of social exclusion and poverty, so as to reduce the number of children given up for adoption. because it is the opportunity to grow up in a healthy, family environment that is in a child's best interest.
in writing.– unfortunately, there are no uniform rules applicable in all eu countries for child adoption (every country applies its own rules and procedures). therefore, in the best interest of the child, we should promote cooperation among member states in cross-border matters relating to children. in particular, we should focus on adoption practices in cross-border cases and on the sharing of best practice by child welfare services across the member states.
in writing. the eu-turkey deal will not work because turkey is not abiding by its obligations. turkey continues to organise and direct the flow of migrants through the balkans. in just one night, 91 people were caught crossing the border between turkey and bulgaria illegally. turkey is a threat to the national security of my country because this neighbor is creating political projects on the territory of bulgaria. turkey is trying to take over one religion and thus interfere directly in our internal affairs, after years of interfering indirectly, organizing the voices of the diaspora in turkey in one direction or another. this is harmful and dangerous for democracy in bulgaria. i am also categorically against visa liberalisation for turkey, which organises, funds, trains and cooperates closely with the islamic state. there is a strong possibility that europe will be flooded with kurdish refugees who, fearing systematic ethnic cleansing by the turkish authorities, will be pushed out and forced to flee to the eu. not to mention the democracy in turkey, where journalists are beaten and arrested, editorial offices of print and electronic media are taken over by force, political opponents are beaten in the halls of the parliament itself. it is definitely not a country worthy of being part of the european family.
in writing. the crisis management agreement between turkey and the european union has radically changed the number of refugees and migrants arriving, opening the door to legal immigration to europe. however, the problem is still far from being solved. it is not possible to find a solution to the migrant crisis if the european union continues to have 28 different national asylum systems. let us use the challenges to accelerate not only the creation of a single asylum system, but also the exchange of specialised information between member states' intelligence services and the creation of a european information agency to coordinate the process, as well as the sharing of defence capabilities, leading gradually to a common armed force. also, without a solution to the syrian problem, there is no way to say that the migrant wave to europe will be finally contained. the primary source is in syria and libya. the islamic state has a strong base in libya. the international community's desire is for a unified government, after democratic elections, to have control over the entire territory of the country. only by consolidating and creating a strong europe 'from within' and tackling the root causes of problems 'from without' can we meet the challenges and emerge stronger.
in writing. the migration crisis of the past few years has shown that no single member state can cope with the influx of migrants and refugees alone and that pan-european efforts are needed to overcome the crisis. at the same time, it is important to strengthen cooperation with the countries of origin and transit of migrants in order to combat human trafficking effectively and, more importantly, to break the illusion that europe can accept all those who want to come here for economic reasons alone. the eu-turkey agreement is important in terms of the need to take measures in this direction. i believe that with joint efforts we can also achieve the common goal of reducing the flow of migration, but this requires both sides to respect their part of the agreement. turkey's threats that it will not implement the agreement and open its borders to bulgaria and europe for migrants if it does not get visa-free regime for the eu, even though it does not yet meet all the criteria for visa waiver, are unacceptable and have no place in a good neighbourly relationship.
in writing. ‒ i supported croatia's accession to the eu-georgia common aviation area agreement. by signing the protocol of accession, croatia becomes a full member of the agreement. it is important to note that the protocols do not introduce any changes to the substance of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported croatia's accession to the eu-israel common aviation area agreement. by signing the protocol of accession, croatia becomes a full member of the agreement. it is important to note that the protocols do not introduce any changes to the substance of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported croatia's accession to the convention on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations on the basis of article k.3 of the eu treaty. the procedure is routine and requires the consultation of parliament. cooperation and mutual assistance between customs administrations is an important element and as a full eu member state, croatia should be part of it.
in writing. ‒ this resolution comes on the eve of the forthcoming revision of the brussels ii regulation on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility, which is the competence of the legal affairs committee, of which i am a member. it is recommended that the legislative gaps be closed and that cooperation between all member states (with the exception of denmark) be improved in the best interests of the child, following a number of petitions received on the matter in the committee on petitions. i support some of the elements of the resolution, considering that the call for action in the best interests of the child is undeniable, but i think we should not transfer more responsibilities to the commission but should keep them in the national parliaments as it has been the case so far. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ freedom of movement, residence and work is the greatest boost to our self-esteem as european citizens. to be successful, this right must be combined with many others. today's focus is on our parental rights. the brussels iia regulation has shortcomings and a number of petitions received in the european parliament very clearly demonstrate this. there is still much to be done to improve coordination and cooperation between the 28 national child protection systems. i will not forget the painful example of the adoption without parental consent in the uk of a bulgarian child, which strongly engaged the committee on petitions. policies and measures in one member state have an impact on all the others. so, along with what my colleagues are calling for today, i want to highlight two things: 1) in the forthcoming revision of the brussels iia regulation, consider introducing an explicit obligation for the host state in a parental rights case to inform the competent authorities of the state of which the child is a national of all the steps taken in the proceedings; 2) the european commission to provide an information campaign to make citizens aware of their rights and the institutions to which they can turn in a timely manner for assistance in the event of cross-border parental rights disputes.
in writing. – nowadays, we see an increase in international and cross-border marriages, and this trend is expected to grow significantly in the near future: 13% of the marriages in eu are considered ‘international’. it should by no means be children who pay the price when eu member states fail to cooperate and protect children’s best interests in legal proceedings such as cross-border parental custody disputes or adoption decisions. children are the future of the european union – its main but most fragile pillar – and that is why i welcome the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fourth railway package proposed by mrs zille, because it will make this market more open and more competitive. the empowerment of the european railway agency to issue licences and certificates to all cross-border hauliers will greatly facilitate the work of railway hauliers operating in more than one member state, while local hauliers will be able to submit their applications to the local authority. the possibility of creating a 'one-stop-shop' service, acting as a single entry point for all applications, is the right step to reduce red tape and administration and thus facilitate business. of course, for these things to happen, the national agencies and the european railway agency will have to work closely together, which is up to the local authorities, but the agency should not be allowed to do everything.
in writing. ‒ the introduction of a single railway system in the eu has so far, i dare say, failed. i therefore hope that by adopting this package we will be taking the first steps towards achieving the ultimate goal. reducing red tape, introducing single application window and allowing rolling stock manufacturers to certify their products with a single application should help the development of a single railway system. the abolition of national rules always leads to ferment on the part of national carriers. it is therefore good that this transitional period of three years after the entry into force of the regulation is introduced, which can be extended once by one year.
in writing. – efficient transport is a critical component of economic development and is essential in meeting the challenges of mobility. transport availability affects development patterns and can be a boost or a barrier to economic growth. removing the remaining administrative and technical barriers in the railway sector is an important step forward, establishing the conditions to be met to achieve interoperability within the union rail system. that is why i support the report and the improvement of coherence in the national legal frameworks for the interoperability aspects of the internal market for railways.
in writing. ‒ a single rail market is good, of course, we have to work for the accessibility of the rail network in all member states. there's always a "but". this is security. we cannot put the european railway agency in charge of safety and then take the responsibility off the shoulders of the local associations. we need to think about this, especially as we're seeing huge holes in security, and instead of trying to strengthen it, we're going to allow it to be weakened. in addition, the security certificates in different countries have different requirements, which are high in some member states and negligible in others.
in writing. ‒ i support the agreement reached on the fourth railway legislative package. i think that the use of rail transport should be encouraged, not only because it is more environmentally friendly, but also because technological advances make it safer and more comfortable. the agreement reached is a success for passengers and railway companies in europe and a major step towards the creation of a single european railway area. increased competition in the sector will improve the quality of passenger services and make them more accessible and attractive. the removal of technical and regulatory barriers will improve safety and reduce the final cost to passengers, while exploiting the potential for job creation.
in writing. i supported this report because i strongly support the creation of a stricter and clearer regime when it comes to benchmarking. we need clearer rules to avoid fraud, like the recent libor manipulation scandal. when investing, one should be able to do so without fear of red tape and other burdens. clear rules and a differentiated approach are needed to move forward on the right track, especially given how many countries in the eu alone rely primarily on continuous investment flows. i also welcome the differentiation towards third countries, which have often been unfairly given an advantage over some member states for purely political reasons.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii commission and executive agencies, as for the 21st consecutive year the european court of auditors has failed to provide a clear statement of the actual expenditure of the eu budget. the error rate in commission payments remains very high at 4.4%, with a maximum error rate of 2%. on the positive side, the report makes many recommendations on how to improve budget implementation and calls on the commission to establish a new approach to the management of eu investment and expenditure that better aligns the budget with the eu's long-term strategic objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted abstention on the report on the special reports of the european court of auditors on the commission's discharge for 2014, as despite the overall positive report on the implementation of the commission's policies, there are various points in it that cannot be supported. the european parliament's report examines 21 special reports by the european court of auditors, one of which focuses on the use of european financial instruments to deal with the refugee crisis in the southern neighbourhood countries, and finds a number of irregularities and a lack of accountability by the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh edfs for the financial year 2014, because there is a great need to improve and strengthen the supervision of operations financed by european funds, as the error rate in the european development fund remains very high 3.8%. the report states that eu heads of delegation in third countries need to improve the management, control and reporting of the implementation of their budgets, with annual reports on their activities based on results achieved as well as on risk assessment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european parliament for 2014 because i believe there are several critical aspects of the documents submitted for the expenditure of the 2014 budget. one of them was the funding of the presidential campaign that year. i also find the 24% increase in the budget of the ep visitor centre to be inefficient, given that the number of visitors has increased by only 1%. i believe that funds should be rationally spent and that they should be distributed proportionately. another critical point for me in parliament's spending is the construction of the house of european history, which is still not completed, the period until its opening continues to be extended and the costs accumulate.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european council and council discharge report as it calls for a deferral of discharge. i believe that we should not decide on the discharge of individual institutions before an assessment of the eu budget has been made. as for the council, since 2009 it has refused to cooperate with parliament and has been unable to provide the necessary information, answer questions or attend meetings and debates concerning the implementation of its own budget. as a result, more than €3 billion of public funds were spent without proper control.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the discharge of the european court of justice because i believe that despite the progress shown, there are areas where the absorption and spending of funds should be improved. i support the comments made by my colleagues in the committee on budgetary control on the publication of the financial statements of the judges. i believe that in an institution like the court of justice, full transparency is needed and that resources should be actively invested in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section v court of auditors, as the main position of the ecr group is not to discharge the institutions and agencies from financial responsibility until an overall positive assessment of the expenditure of the budgets and the use of european funds is obtained. in addition, the european court of auditors needs to speed up the preparation of its special reports, many of which are far in excess of the 18 months provided for, and to improve the quality of these reports themselves with more concrete and clear recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to be given to the european economic and social committee in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu. recognising the role of the european economic and social committee as an eu consultative body that provides a link between the european union and civil society, i believe that the committee's budget is too large. i'm not entirely convinced of the usefulness of the committee's work, nor its effectiveness. despite the positive opinion of the report on the management of the funds by the european economic and social committee, the level of implementation is unsatisfactory and the committee's budget is entirely administrative, which does not ensure a consistency between the funds invested and the results achieved.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the committee of the regions for the implementation of the general eu budget for 2014, following the political line of the european conservatives and reformists group. despite the high level of appropriation by the committee, several critical aspects of its work are observed, namely the reporting rules and conflicts of interest. the transparency and effectiveness of the committee's work are called into question by the delay in the publication, implementation and communication of the committee of the regions' annual activity report. i am also particularly concerned about the lack of clear rules on the prevention and management of conflicts of interest within the committee of the regions, as well as the high number of missions and the high travel and meeting fees generated by committee members. all these considerations contributed to my negative vote on this report.
in writing. i strongly oppose this report. we have been negligent for too long when it comes to budgetary control and oversight. in particular, as regards the eeas, further consideration should be given to issues such as staffing, geographical balance, the role and activities of eusrs and, most importantly, clarification of the functions and powers of the eeas within the administrative structure. therefore, until we have the green light from the court of auditors, i cannot support the discharge.
in writing. - i'm against the discharge on principle. it cannot be allowed to allow high costs for the ombudsman's office without proper control, especially given the lack of transparency and quality standards for staff selection. the use of emergency procedures for the re-hiring of temporary contract staff without having to go through formal selection procedures cannot be allowed, in line with our fundamental principles of democracy and equality.
in writing. i do not support this report. in particular, the office of the european data protection supervisor should operate in a transparent and clear manner. instead, there is still too much uncertainty around the internal conflict of interest policy and we are witnessing a clear lack of binding rules on 'revolving doors' and whistleblowing. we also need much more clarity on public procurement contracts and i strongly welcome the recommendation that they should be published on the internet for public access and control. so without the green light from the court of auditors, i don't think it's morally and logically right to support this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge to be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the reason for this is that i believe that all agencies and joint undertakings should provide a comprehensive account of their activities and expenditure. on the basis of this information, we, the members of the european parliament, and the eu citizens, need to assess whether these structures are effective and how we can increase their effectiveness if we are not satisfied with their work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge to be given to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the reason for this is that i believe that all agencies and joint undertakings should provide a comprehensive account of their activities and expenditure. on the basis of this information, we, the members of the european parliament, and the eu citizens, need to assess whether these structures are effective and how we can increase their effectiveness if we are not satisfied with their work.
in writing. ‒ we are seeing a weak budget implementation, which is also constantly declining. in addition, the centre has not implemented two of the external audit office's very important recommendations. additionally, there's a growing surplus in the translation center's coffers, and you want to absolve them? it's obvious that the budgeting at this center is off the charts, and instead of paying attention, we're going to exonerate them? i don't understand him
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge to be given to the european centre for the development of vocational training in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the reason for this is that i believe that all agencies and joint undertakings should provide a comprehensive account of their activities and expenditure. on the basis of this information, we, the members of the european parliament, and the eu citizens, need to assess whether these structures are effective and how we can increase their effectiveness if we are not satisfied with their work.
in writing. we don't know if two of the recommendations of the internal audit service have been implemented, and we want to discharge the director of the police college? let us first see whether these recommendations of this verifying authority, which concern precisely this reporting period, have been implemented, and then discharge the heads of the college.
in writing. ‒ we note that no explanations concerning conflicts of interest of some members of the management board and administrative staff have yet been submitted or verified, and at the same time we want to discharge the executive director of the european aviation safety agency, at the same time we see a reduction in management and budgetary control. let's give the executives there a little more time, and then we'll consider an exemption.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014, as the main position of the ecr group is not to discharge the institutions and agencies from financial responsibility until an overall positive assessment of the expenditure of the budgets and the use of european funds is obtained. i am of the opinion that this service should not exist, because the granting of asylum should remain the responsibility of the member states, so that they can decide for themselves which people to grant asylum and which not.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014, as the main position of the ecr group is not to discharge institutions and agencies from financial responsibility until an overall positive assessment of the expenditure of budgets and the use of european funds is obtained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014, as the main position of the ecr group is not to discharge the institutions and agencies from financial responsibility until an overall positive assessment of the expenditure of the budgets and the use of european funds is obtained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014, as the main position of the ecr group is not to discharge the institutions and agencies from financial responsibility until an overall positive assessment of the expenditure of the budgets and the use of european funds is obtained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge to be given to the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the reason for this is that i believe that all agencies and joint undertakings should provide a comprehensive account of their activities and expenditure. on the basis of this information, we, the members of the european parliament, and the eu citizens, need to assess whether these structures are effective and how we can increase their effectiveness if we are not satisfied with their work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge to be given to the european fisheries control agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the reason for this is that i believe that all agencies and joint undertakings should provide a comprehensive account of their activities and expenditure. on the basis of this information, we, the members of the european parliament, and the eu citizens, need to assess whether these structures are effective and how we can increase their effectiveness if we are not satisfied with their work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge to be given to the european food safety authority in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the reason for this is that i believe that all agencies and joint undertakings should provide a comprehensive account of their activities and expenditure. on the basis of this information, we, the members of the european parliament, and the eu citizens, need to assess whether these structures are effective and how we can increase their effectiveness if we are not satisfied with their work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge to be given to the european institute for gender equality in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the reason for this is that i believe that all agencies and joint undertakings should provide a comprehensive account of their activities and expenditure. on the basis of this information, we, the members of the european parliament, and the eu citizens, need to assess whether these structures are effective and how we can increase their effectiveness if we are not satisfied with their work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge to be given to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the reason for this is that i believe that all agencies and joint undertakings should provide a comprehensive account of their activities and expenditure. on the basis of this information, we, the members of the european parliament, and the eu citizens, need to assess whether these structures are effective and how we can increase their effectiveness if we are not satisfied with their work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge to be given to the european institute of innovation and technology in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the reason for this is that i believe that all agencies and joint undertakings should provide a comprehensive account of their activities and expenditure. on the basis of this information, we, the members of the european parliament, and the eu citizens, need to assess whether these structures are effective and how we can increase their effectiveness if we are not satisfied with their work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge of the european medicines agency for the implementation of the general budget of the eu because my view and that of my group is that the adoption of the discharge decision should be postponed, as it is important for us to see which european structures work effectively and do not waste the money of the european citizen, and to keep those under control who spend more money but do not do the job.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, because i and my political group are not convinced of the efficiency of the expenditure of funds and of the generating of positive results from the centre's activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 of the european maritime safety agency because my political group and i wanted to wait for the annual statement of assurance of the european court of auditors before deciding on the discharge, in order to be sure that the eu funds allocated to the agency were spent appropriately and correctly.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 of the european union agency for network and information security because, as mentioned in the report by ms vaughan, the agency is facing difficulties in attracting and retaining appropriately qualified staff, which calls into question the competence of its staff and the efficiency of their work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 of the european railway agency because i am not convinced of the usefulness of the agency's work. i believe that the commission's proposal for a new rail transport regulation, which among other things provides for an increase in the powers of the european railway agency to regulate procedures and standards in the sector and a greater integration of the european railway area, is a necessary step towards strengthening the competitiveness of the sector and improving performance. at the same time, however, the need for new regulation in the sector and for the enhancement of the agency's powers suggests that the work done so far has not brought the necessary benefits to the railway sector and does not justify the financial discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge to the european securities and markets authority in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, because, as the european court of auditors has found, there are weaknesses in the implementation of the budget, such as unauthorised expenditure, which means non-compliance with the financial regulation. the use of the budget in an unregulated manner calls into question whether the allocation of funds to the european securities and markets authority is actually justified.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 of the european training foundation because i am not convinced of the usefulness of the foundation's work and of the positive impact of the results it generates. despite the progress noted by the european parliament in terms of staff selection procedures and the prevention and management of conflicts of interest, i cannot be fully confident in the implementation in terms of transparency, accountability and integrity. given the need to improve the foundation's procedures and practices aimed at protecting the financial interests of the union, and given that the discharge is a result-oriented process, i did not support the european parliament's report on the discharge for the european training foundation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 of europol, as i believe that all agencies and undertakings where european taxpayer funds are allocated should be accountable and held accountable for what they have and have not done in a given period. for structures such as europol and frontex, which have been experiencing difficulties in their work since the beginning of the immigration crisis, i think it is appropriate to have a detailed report of activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge to be given to the fundamental rights agency in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. the reason for this is that i believe that all agencies and joint undertakings should provide a comprehensive account of their activities and expenditure. on the basis of this information, we, the members of the european parliament, and the eu citizens, need to assess whether these structures are effective and how we can increase their effectiveness if we are not satisfied with their work.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 of frontex, as i believe that all agencies and undertakings where european taxpayer funds are allocated should be accountable and be held accountable for what they have and have not done in a given period. for structures such as europol and frontex, which have been experiencing difficulties in their work since the beginning of the immigration crisis, i think it is appropriate to have a detailed report of activities.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge report for the artemis joint undertaking, as the vote on postponing the discharge was already taken in the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. i voted in favour of the discharge report of the eniac joint undertaking, as the vote on postponing the discharge was already taken in the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 for the iter joint undertaking, as the vote on the postponement of the discharge was already taken in the committee on budgetary control.
in writing. i voted abstention on the report on the european investment bank. overall, the report shows good results in the management of funds. however, there are things in it that contradict my understanding of the european union and its future. in her report, ms pirinski called for 'strengthening european integration' and for 'strengthening and expanding the eib's network of offices within the eu'. this is contrary to my understanding of stronger national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on attacks on hospitals and schools as violations of international humanitarian law, as what happened in afghanistan, yemen and syria must not be repeated and cannot be justified. international humanitarian law is designed to protect the lives and health of civilians, and if everyone starts violating it when it suits them, then all these agreements lose their meaning and normal people will not be protected in any way. the united states cannot act illegally and the bombing of schools and hospitals should not be stopped only by an apology from president obama and compensation for the families of the victims. a full investigation is needed to find and punish those responsible and prevent future attacks.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed resolution, which i consider to be entirely timely, because recently the international community has witnessed a terrifying trend. attacks on hospitals, schools and other civilian facilities in armed conflicts in different parts of the world are appalling acts that are contrary to international humanitarian law and must be opposed by the global community with all the tools at its disposal. i believe that at the first world humanitarian summit in istanbul in may, un member states should reaffirm the centrality of international humanitarian law and the protection it offers. it is necessary to condemn these crimes internationally and to demand independent investigations to hold those responsible to account. the eu and its member states should call on the un and the security council to guarantee the protection of both local and international humanitarian workers and to renew the commitment to protect civilians. we need to strengthen the institutional capacity of the international community to take action that would strengthen the system for the implementation of international humanitarian law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by ms ferrara as it reflected the situation with public access to documents as laid down in article 15 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i and my political group support wider access for citizens to parliament, council and commission documents. however, i believe that such access should be subject to specific rules and conditions so that access to documents does not place the european union and the member states at a disadvantage, in particular as regards the negotiation of international agreements.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mrs kuneva, which proposes the recognition and professionalisation of domestic work and care for the elderly or sick, which, if achieved at european level, would help many of our fellow citizens in europe, because their work should be valued and properly paid. the report also deals extensively with various forms of violence and the risks associated with domestic work. it encourages member states to incentivise employers in the field of domestic work through subsidies or tax breaks and calls for a strengthened role of the european platform against undeclared work (currently serving as a platform for sharing and exchanging information). i believe that the subject can be addressed at european level and the report is a good step to offer the commission a more substantial analysis of the subject and possible proposals.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i support the report on female domestic workers and carers in the eu, as i believe it focuses attention on a particularly vulnerable group of labour market participants who need additional protection. the exploitation of labour in the eu continues to exist. according to the fundamental rights agency, domestic work and care work are among the sectors with the highest risk of labour exploitation in the european union. over 88% of those employed in these sectors are women, often employed on the basis of verbal contracts. in the absence of a formal contract, they are deprived of basic labour rights such as the right to paid annual leave, sick or maternity leave, insurance and pension rights, irregular remuneration, irregular working hours. better regulation of domestic and care work is needed in national legislation and measures at european level are needed to combat unregulated work in these sectors, and i believe that the report is an important step in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because it is in the best interests of more than 2.5 million eu citizens, who work in the domestic work sector, to promote professional recognition of the skills and qualifications of domestic workers and carers. professionalization of the domestic work and care sector will not only increase the level of services provided but also will certainly create more jobs in this growing sector because there will be a place for professional development. in this regard, the commission should work extensively with the member states to find a common way to develop and recognise the skills of domestic workers, in particular of women domestic workers and carers. in addition, it is important to note that women are very vulnerable as domestic workers and carers, therefore they are victims of mental and physical abuse. in this context, the commission should work with member states to prevent violations and abuse and to protect their rights.
in writing. – employment and social rights are fundamental rights for every citizen of the european union. when around 2.5 million people who are domestic workers in the eu do not have rights because there is a lack of protection by the relevant institutions or laws, then it is our duty to change these institutions and laws. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - gender equality is something that i and the imro have always supported, and i believe that the results achieved so far in our society are not to be underestimated. i will continue to work in this direction because i believe that capacity and skills are important in occupying a certain professional position and that gender is irrelevant and that discrimination in this regard must be stopped. and most importantly, the pay for a given position should not be different depending on gender. there are professions where women are more talented than men, and vice versa. there are more women in the relevant positions, which is normal. the decision to introduce quotas to increase the opportunities for women to occupy higher positions is not right for me and my political party, and it is only because of this reference in the text that i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i support the report on gender equality and empowering women in the digital age. i believe that digitalisation has fundamentally changed the way people receive and provide information, communicate, learn and work, and this has a major impact on the labour market and creates new job opportunities and more flexible working patterns for women and girls in the ict sector. this in turn can help to empower them financially and give them independence and lead to a reduction in the overall gender pay gap. the participation of women in the information society is not only a matter of fairness and equality, but also contributes to the improvement of social and economic conditions in society and to the eu's competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the ict industry is the fastest growing sector of the world’s economy. therefore, the eu’s ‘digital agenda’ for growth, mobility and employment is a central pillar of the europe 2020 strategy. it is important to note that due to differences in demand and skills the eu may lack ict workers in 2020. to fill this gap, we should encourage more women to enter the digital jobs market. nowadays only 6% of ict developers in europe are women, only 19% of bosses in the ict and communications sectors are females (compared with 45% in other service sectors) and women represent just 19% of ict entrepreneurs (compared with 54% in other service sectors). looking from this perspective it could be argued that empowering women in the tech sector will provide not only a boost to the economy but also, and perhaps most importantly, will allow their full participation in society.
in writing. – the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, which was adopted by un member states in september, identifies icts as key enablers of growth and as an essential component of transformative solutions to meet today’s societal challenges. we must not miss the opportunity to close the persistent gender digital gap: in access, in usage, in content, in leadership and in opportunities in icts for women. the gender gap in icts has to be addressed in various dimensions of access, affordability, skills and usage, and only by closing the digital gender gap shall we be able to realise the full potential of icts as a catalytic and transformative tool for development and sustainable growth. in my work as an mep i support digital skills education and getting more girls interested in stem subjects, in coding and in programming to motivate the next generation of european women inventors and innovators. this is, i believe, essential to establishing the eu as a key driver of innovation, entrepreneurship and digital leadership. that is why i supported the report.
the rapporteur. madam president, what was the purpose of this report? with this report, we have tried to find another focus in cohesion policy and to increase its added value with a new approach to one of europe's most important assets: the mountains. mountains, which represent about 30% of the territory of the european union and nearly 17% of its citizens. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues from all political groups for the excellent work we have done together to reach this balanced text. what have we achieved in this document? we share the idea of the need to create a programme for the development of mountain regions. a european approach can do much to bring them closer together, especially if their advantages and disadvantages as separate territories are taken into account. this programme could eventually develop into a strategy for europe's mountains, which is part of the cohesion policy. secondly, we advocate the revision and coordination of the instruments existing at european level which have a bearing on mountains and the future integration of the mountain dimension in the regional and other policies of the european union. many union programmes, policies and instruments have a significant indirect role in mountains and the results they achieve can be enhanced if the mountain dimension is seriously addressed in them. thirdly, it is good that mountains are planned in the next programming period after a european definition has been established and put into the next regulation. defining the mountains of europe is a difficult task and many similar definitions exist even in european documents. but in the common agricultural policy, the definition of mountains is laid down in the regulation itself, which is also necessary in cohesion policy, in order to put a special emphasis on mountain agriculture. why is such a policy necessary? firstly, mountains have specific characteristics, which are due to their difficult accessibility and vulnerability to climate change. at the same time, they have a wealth of resources and real potential for development. the report therefore focuses on environmental protection and the fight against climate change. this is the most important for all the mountains in europe, as it has an effect on tourism and agriculture in many of them. mountains are an excellent source of all types of renewable energy - wind, solar, water and biomass. they provide an excellent opportunity for the development of eu renewable energy policy, which can be concentrated in mountain regions. the economy of the mountains still depends heavily on crafts, tourism, and agriculture. we call for support for small and medium-sized enterprises with a separate approach to mountain regions, precisely to take account of these and other features. all this politics goes through education, which has its own specifics. during the preparation of my report, i saw a number of cases where dual education leads to good results, as in the mountains it is necessary to concentrate on skills and training, especially in sectors that do not lead to environmental pollution. last but not least, accessibility and connectivity are important. the links between mountains and their surrounding areas are key, as our proposal for a definition shows. high-quality internet is key, because without it we cannot facilitate the creation of small and medium-sized enterprises and the economic development of mountain regions. attracting so-called 'independent professionals', i.e. people whose workplace is not fixed, is a very realistic way of improving the demographic situation. i'll stop here and wait for your suggestions. i hope tonight we'll learn a lot of ideas and put them into practice.
author. madam president, commissioner, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, i present a question for oral answer and a draft resolution with the general title 'accelerating the implementation of cohesion policy'. the question for oral answer is directly related to the two reports presented previously and relates to the implementation of cohesion policy throughout the planning period. more than two years have passed since the start of the current cohesion policy programming period and we are already experiencing serious delays in its implementation. there were delays in the adoption of operational programmes, there were delays in the implementation and implementation of a significant number of preconditions laid down in the member states' partnership agreements, there were delays in the designation of the competent programme and certification bodies by the member states. this is why we can generally observe delays in the start of implementation of the programmes and in the preparation and submission of payment documents. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. over the years, the european parliament has often called on the european commission to respond appropriately to the problem of the delay in the implementation of cohesion policy. an example of this was the debate on the sixth cohesion report held in this chamber. in this context, we have repeatedly stressed the crucial importance of simplifying policy, good governance and coordination and synergies with other policies and their financial instruments. meps welcomed the establishment of a working group on better implementation of the 2007-2013 programmes in eight member states and the establishment by the commission of a high-level group of independent experts on simplification. despite all this, more efforts are needed to overcome the serious challenges facing the european union's cohesion policy. parliament calls on the commission to make a detailed assessment of progress in the implementation of cohesion policy, to prepare an in-depth analysis of the risks of financial losses for member states in the event of cancellation of commitments, indicating the specific amounts per country, and to analyse the estimates of disbursements according to the documents submitted by member states. for these reasons, and on behalf of the committee on regional development, i would like to ask the european commission what concrete measures it has taken and will take to prevent losses in the event of cancellation of commitments. what measures are being and will be taken to ensure full implementation of the payment plan within the budget for 2016 and also for the following years of the plan period? what measures has it taken and what will it take to improve the administrative capacity at all levels for the implementation of cohesion policy? and last but not least: how will the european commission encourage the implementation of the appropriate structural reforms needed to implement cohesion policy effectively? finally, i would like to ask the commission what will be the focus of the work of the group on better programme implementation for the 2014-2020 programming period? the european parliament calls on the european commission, through the decisions of the committee on regional development, to respond to these questions and to provide parliament with a comprehensive assessment of the situation and the envisaged solutions with a view to the effective implementation of the european union's cohesion policy and to opening a debate on the future of cohesion policy, based on the experience gained in addressing the challenges of this period.
member of the commission.– mr president, on behalf of the european commission i would like to thank the honourable members iotova and tomašić for their reports and also the honourable members who participated in this debate. the legal and policy framework for the european structural and investment funds for 2014-2020 has entailed a major leap forward in taking account of the diversity of european regions, in particular their mountainous areas, and developing specific tools to exploit the potential of this diversity. for this new funding cycle, member states are required to set out in their partnership agreements an integrated approach to address the specific needs of geographical areas suffering from severe and permanent handicaps. furthermore, they have at their disposal new instruments to reflect these specificities. i have mentioned modulation of eu co-financing rates but also integrated territorial investments and community-led local development. the commission strongly believes that the introduction of these new territorial tools will facilitate promoting an integrated place-based approach to territorial development in cohesion policy as well as to foster a bottom-up approach. but, following the adoption of the esif programmes, now it is up to member states to take up these new tools and to translate our funds into to growth and jobs for european regions and european citizens. it is their responsibility, but the commission is actively supporting them in this endeavour. we are jointly examining those programmes where particular efforts are needed. we have set up a high-level group on simplification. we are supporting administrative capacity, providing a great deal of guidance so that they can accelerate implementation without having to compromise on quality. i noted that many mentioned capacity building, and it is worth mentioning the several administrative capacity building actions proposed by the commission in areas such as public procurement and state aid and the taiex-regio peer 2 peer platform designed to help officials involved in the management of the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund to exchange knowledge and to exchange good practices. also, the newly established structural reform support service will assist member states in carrying out structural reforms. it was also suggested that the commission needs to communicate its policies better such as fc and esif complementarities and the commission recently published a brochure on fc and esif complementarities which is available on the commission’s website as well as a technical website on the same topic. the commission is confident that this work will bear fruit, allowing investments to result and sustainable growth for people on the ground, which is after all our common objective to us all. i can assure you the commission will spare no energy in these efforts. finally, i would like to thank you very much for your very valuable comments and suggestions, which the commission duly notes.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues in this chamber for the high regard they have given to the report we produced together with the shadow rapporteurs on mountain regions. in fact, most of these statements reflect a great concern, and that is the concern about the depopulation of these regions in europe. this trend is not limited to the more peripheral countries, it's not limited to countries like bulgaria and romania, where entire mountain municipalities are disappearing. one of the most frightening statistics i came across in my own country was that a quarter of the settlements in the mountain regions had no children under 14. although less so, the rich countries also show a trend of depopulation. with the loss of mountain communities, not only are the ecosystem services we all depend on being lost. the rich culture of the mountains is being lost, as well as the excellent opportunities for development. and that is why i want to address the european commission tonight. ladies and gentlemen, when you are preparing the new multiannual financial framework, when we are now making a general review of the current financial framework, let us pay special attention and emphasis to the mountain regions of europe. it is an inexhaustible resource for all of us, and future generations will not forgive us if we do not pay special attention to these regions now.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, today a united europe is torn by dividing lines between member states, emerging in the way of solving old and newly emerging crises. nord stream 2 is the project that draws a new dividing line. this time, the split is in the context of one of the eu's most significant initiatives for a new impetus to unite, namely the creation of a european energy union, in which solidarity and trust between the parties will achieve security and diversification of energy supplies and competitive prices in a common energy market. i would like to recall the abandoned but priority eu-wide nabucco project, whose fate was decided by the choice of another solution by the private companies concerned. is it possible today that the gas map of europe could be redrawn again by the consortium of european energy companies and gazprom involved in nord stream? will the eu's repeatedly declared priorities for the development of the southern gas corridor be relegated to the background again? can governments do anything? perhaps such questions would not be asked if information about why and to whom this project is needed were made publicly available. it is high time for a real openness in the european energy sector to trigger the solidarity and trust mechanism.
in writing. the link between economic growth and tackling high unemployment is undeniable. but to get young people into the labour market, we cannot rely solely on european youth employment programmes and state programmes. career prospects are driven by a stable and prosperous economy on the one hand and the upskilling and mobility of europeans on the other. the european economy is growing at about 2% a year, but according to the european commission's recent economic forecast, unemployment will fall by only half. that means we need to change our economic model, creating new opportunities for young people to be involved. promoting young entrepreneurs and providing traineeships and vocational training are at the heart of this new model, which not only boosts employment but also boosts the economy. it is also important to promote the development of business skills in the next four years, 16 million more jobs will require high-skilled people. and to make these people available everywhere in europe, we also need to improve professional mobility. the legal prerequisites for the free movement of labour are in place, but now is the time to overcome practical and administrative obstacles, creating a truly transparent labour market.
in writing. – international trade is key to building a worldwide economic network and enabling emerging economies to improve their situation. nevertheless international trade must be controlled and regulated to not allow unfair advantages for some individuals or businesses over others. i support the proposal concerning the amendments to ensure the appropriate and transparent application of the anti-subsidy and anti-dumping rules to guarantee fair competition between eu firms and their non eu competitors.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this report because i am convinced that a clearer framework of agreements and provisions is needed, especially when acting outside the eu. we must avoid unnecessary misunderstandings and legal loopholes to protect our fishing vessels and the transport of fish. more importantly, however, by better managing fisheries in the region, we indirectly protect the eu's fish resources and avoid market disruptions due to economic fluctuations and other damage, overpopulation, etc. although fishing waters are not directly linked to southern and eastern european waters, small changes in the marine ecosystem can have dangerous consequences for fishing in our waters, i.e. the mediterranean and black sea regions.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu-liberia sustainable fisheries partnership agreement and the protocol on its implementation. it will strengthen cooperation between the eu and liberia, but also more generally between the eu and west africa. the liberian authorities have also provided information on the fishing activities of the vessels involved in the illegal fishing activities in the liberian fishing zone. this reduces the potential to increase national income from fishing activities and has a negative impact on fish stocks and marine ecosystems. i believe that in the long run, eu financial support will have a positive impact on the local economy. the protocol will help to strengthen monitoring, control and surveillance and contribute to better fisheries management in the region. the conclusion of this agreement will help the eu to achieve its objectives in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and to implement one of the priorities of the common fisheries policy sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture. the protocol will bring greater security and more rights for eu vessels, thus strengthening its role in the region.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of korea on the global civil navigation satellite system, as i believe it is important for all citizens. the international nature of the galileo programme has led several countries to apply for a cooperation agreement with the european union. korea formally expressed its interest in march 2005. the european commission, on the basis of authorisation from the council, negotiated a global civil navigation satellite system cooperation agreement between the european community (and its member states) and the republic of korea, which was subsequently signed in september 2006.
in writing. – the republic of korea is a country with capabilities in space technology and applications. it is an active user of satellite navigation services in various sectors including transport, fleet management, science and geodesy. i voted in favour of the cooperation agreement on a civil gnss with korea to allow for a more globalised and open partnership with the republic of korea.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the new territorial development instruments under cohesion policy 2014-2020 because the new initiatives represent an opportunity for local stakeholders to benefit from funding streams and to plan targeted local initiatives. the bottom-up approach adopted implies greater involvement of local actors and better coordination and absorption of european structural and investment funds.
in writing. – every person on our planet is affected by their surroundings and environment. working together and developing new tools to tackle problems linked to territorial development is key to developing solid partnerships across europe and beyond. the integrated territorial instruments provide a flexible mechanism for formulating integrated responses to diverse territorial needs, without losing the thematic focus through which cohesion policy is linked to the europe 2020 strategy. therefore, i vote in favour of the new territorial development tools in cohesion policy 2014-2020.
in writing. ‒ i support any report that leads to more transparency. this is about foreign direct investment and how to distinguish it from mergers and/or acquisitions of existing companies. we have a case in our country in 2015 that was reported as the largest foreign investment for that year, and it wasn't. something has to change to avoid differences in the statistics and hence in the future plans of the community countries, because this can affect the economic growth of a country and hence of the union.
in writing. – in our globalised and digital world, information plays a key role in understanding the successes and failures of past events. the gathering of such information and the evaluation of statistics, especially concerning economic issues, is key to creating an innovative and successful market economy of the 21st century. i vote for the gathering of statistics concerning balance of payments, international trade in services and fdi to enable a better and more transparent analysis of the european economy. i am certain this will lead to a faster recognition of problems concerning global economic issues and a faster and more profitable decision making processes by investors.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu's cohesion policy for mountain regions because it focuses on the development needs of mountain regions in the european union and their potential to become sources of jobs and sustainable growth. mountain regions are crucial to achieving the eu's objectives of employment, cohesion and environmental protection through the sustainable use of their natural resources. mountain areas are generally disadvantaged because of their remoteness or extreme conditions, which can lead to lower social standards and increased unemployment, which requires the coordination of eu policies for these regions and, as indicated in the report, the establishment of a working definition of functional mountain areas in the context of cohesion policy to facilitate the coordination of policies and measures concerning these regions, as well as the creation of a specific approach for them due to their structural weaknesses. i believe that it is essential for better policy coordination and better strategic cooperation that the carpathians remain within the danube macro-regional strategy, because this guarantees participation in the enhanced cooperation framework, which generates new projects and cooperation networks.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it focuses on the opportunities that the eu's mountain regions provide for achieving the europe 2020 goals. it highlights the opportunities that mountain areas offer for job creation, sustainable tourism and the use of renewable energy sources. i welcome the call in the report for the creation of an eu programme for mountain areas. the integration of the mountain dimension into future eu programmes and policies, especially within the framework of the european structural and investment funds, is key to ensuring sustainable economic development of mountains. i believe that the coordination of eu policies for mountain areas ensures that eu funding has a clear strategic focus on achieving sustainable and inclusive growth. at the same time, i believe that the inclusion of the mountain-specific dimension in the framework of european territorial cooperation would provide a good direction for mountain policy in the eu by extending the platform for best practices in these areas. in conclusion, i support a coordinated approach to sustainable mountain development so that its enormous potential can be exploited to the full.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the cohesion policy in mountain areas in the eu, as i believe that it is essential for eu policies to have a specific approach to mountain areas, given their clear structural shortcomings. these areas need additional support to be able to provide long-term, not just seasonal, employment, economic development, prevention and management of natural disasters, and environmental protection. mountain regions should be included in all aspects of eu policies, including cohesion policy, through the introduction of a territorial impact assessment. it is crucial for many regions to identify solutions for access to quality education. in order to overcome the negative demographic trends in these countries, and in particular in the balkans, equal access to education and provision of childcare facilities, as well as adult training and retraining, would facilitate active integration into the labour market. last but not least, youth employment initiatives are a good opportunity to stem the outflow of young people in response to the demographic crisis and the problem of ageing populations in mountain regions.
in writing. ‒ 42% of the settlements in the mountain areas of bulgaria have fewer than 100 inhabitants, and 25% of them have no children under 14 years of age. the same levels of social and economic marginalisation of mountain areas are found in the carpathians and in the mountains of greece. today my colleagues in the european parliament and i adopted by a large majority a resolution on the eu's cohesion policy in mountain areas, which aims to secure additional targeted investment. the depopulation of these areas has led to the loss of real development opportunities. the demographic collapse that has affected all of europe is particularly pronounced there. providing better infrastructure in mountain areas is key to attracting new investment. the resolution addresses the above issues and focuses not only on agriculture and tourism as investment areas, but also on the potential for developing renewable energy based on water, wind, solar and biomass resources. the creation of employment through the subsidisation of small and medium-sized enterprises is also central to making mountain areas more attractive. i supported the adoption of the resolution because it is a step towards ensuring more favourable conditions for investment in the current and next programming period.
in writing. mountain regions are very important because of the opportunities and potential they have in solving local, national and global problems. however, worrying trends such as depopulation and population ageing are particularly acute in these countries. i therefore believe that we must look for ways and instruments, through the european cohesion funds, to halt and even reverse these trends. investments in closed-loop production are an opportunity for this. they ensure that the added value of the whole process remains in the region concerned. mountain farmers have a harder time matching the economic performance of their competitors in other regions due to transport, natural and other constraints. for this reason, i think they should look for ways to unite, and besides being able to offer more production and reduce the costs of each producer individually, this would also help them in negotiations with buyers. i support and call for the streamlining of administrative procedures for these producer organisations in the mountains. the lack of clarity and the lack of sufficient mechanisms to promote the 'mountain product' label at european level are still a fact. for this reason, it has not achieved the desired effect and recognition. in view of this, i strongly believe that the commission should propose financial instruments to promote it.
in writing. – the eu is built on a solid foundation of solidarity, trust and the idea that together we can achieve more than we could ever achieve alone. i vote for the cohesion policy in mountainous regions of the eu, to enable a more effective and productive environment for smes and other local businesses affected by environmental issues in mountainous regions.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the resolution on the eu's mountain cohesion policy, in which the ep calls for a pan-european programme for mountain regions as the basis for a future european strategy for their long-term development. mountains cover a significant part of the eu's territory (around 30%) and are at the heart of the protection of biodiversity and the fight against climate change. taking into account their cultural and natural heritage, mountain areas can become engines of 'green' and sustainable growth by developing a bio-economy based on agriculture, forestry, renewable energy, tourism and crafts. realising this potential requires a coordinated approach between the different eu policies and programmes in mountain areas to provide infrastructure for physical and digital accessibility, access to education, social services, health and development of multifunctional agriculture. in this context, i welcome the fact that the resolution covers the agri committee's proposals for 'revitalising' mountain areas through cap support for the development of mountain agriculture and livestock, including mountain dairy production. the establishment of the quality term 'mountain product', the support of agro-tourism and craft projects, as well as specialised training in these areas, will contribute to the preservation of the identity and cultural heritage of mountain areas.
madam president, the world humanitarian summit must outline a sustainable framework for humanitarian aid, designed for over 120 million people in need around the world. i hope that the results will surpass all previous donor conferences of a similar nature. one of the main issues to be raised at the meeting is the financing of humanitarian aid. as epp rapporteur in the shadow of the opinion of the subcommittee on human rights and as permanent rapporteur on recommendations to the un general assembly, i emphasised the priorities i would set during the meeting, namely: for more effective cooperation within the un system to cut recruitment and funding networks for terrorist groups, for the importance of interreligious and intercultural dialogue to reduce refugee flows, and for the allocation of financial and human resources for ongoing education in fundamental values such as human dignity, freedom of expression, equality and respect for the law. turkey, as the host of the meeting, must also respect basic democratic rules and not use this hosting for political propaganda purposes, but for the future of millions of needy people around the world. turkey was chosen to host this meeting before the wave of migration had yet to sweep the country and europe. there is something symbolic about the fact that the world is coming together for the first time in istanbul to come up with concrete solutions that will strengthen europe's role not only as the main donor of humanitarian aid but also as an active factor in shaping the development of the world.
in writing. we are facing a humanitarian crisis of unprecedented scale and nature. today, more than 400 million people worldwide are affected by armed conflicts, natural disasters, climate change and socioeconomic instability. these people need effective and secure humanitarian assistance. unfortunately, the provision and delivery of such assistance under the current system is a rather difficult undertaking due to the lack of funding and the lack of funds. that is why i believe that the world needs a new humanitarian system, one that is based on the fundamental principles of humanity, solidarity, the protection of human life and respect for the norms of international humanitarian law. it must rely on coordinated, timely and flexible funding, supported by a new public-private partnership. as the world's leading humanitarian aid donor, the eu has the potential and capacity to establish and develop such a humanitarian aid system. at the forthcoming world humanitarian summit in istanbul, the union must take the lead in bringing relief to the millions of suffering people. this is not only our moral duty, but also a commitment that the european union has continued to fulfil for decades.
madam president, mrs mogherini, i want to join in what you have said and express my respect for the efforts of jordan and lebanon to reduce the human suffering of millions in the region. the european union is the largest financial donor to the syrian crisis, having contributed to date over eur 5 billion from its own budget and from member states' budgets in the form of humanitarian aid and support for economic development and stabilisation. very often, we emphasize that turkey hosts over 2 million refugees, but we forget the small countries of lebanon and jordan, which have hosted a total of 1.7 million syrians, which is over 20% of their total population. in other words, the pressure on lebanon and jordan is enormous. we must not forget that in both countries there are also hundreds of thousands of palestinians and iraqis who have been displaced by other conflicts in the middle east. it is in our interest, not only in terms of values and humanity and compassion, but also in our interest to reduce the refugee flow to europe, to help both syria and jordan. after the agreement with the european union, europe must also help solve the refugee problem in other countries, but we must also turn to solutions within ourselves. with the changing world around us, with the crises in europe's neighbourhood, we need to be much more united and really go from being a so-called 'soft power' to becoming a 'hard power' to have a common defence capacity, to have common external border protection, common intelligence. in foreign policy, europe must be much more united and consolidated. i very much want, mrs mogherini, that we have a united voice before the world and that voice is your voice, that it is heard, that europe is respected and participates not only in humanitarian aid and development aid but also in finding political solutions to the crises around us.
in writing. what is happening in lebanon and jordan borders on a humanitarian catastrophe. it's no surprise that 65% of registered syrian refugees are under the age of 25. these people are fleeing mandatory military service, either in assad's army, or in the opposition free syrian army, or in the ranks of the islamic state. meanwhile, lebanon and jordan have severely restricted syrian refugees' ability to study and work legally, forcing them to rely solely on humanitarian aid and black-collar work. this is why the lives of syrian refugees in lebanon and jordan are a disaster, and humanitarian aid alone will not improve them. i believe that the european union should stop being just a donor of humanitarian aid and work with the countries that are hosting refugees to find ways to improve their lives. if that doesn't happen, i fear that many of the people who have fled to lebanon and jordan will be looking for ways to move to western europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs on their work on this proposal for a directive. the agreement reached with the council makes it possible to clarify and improve the conditions for trainees, volunteers, students and pupils from outside europe for the benefit of the union and its member states, as well as the countries of origin. i would like to emphasize three elements. firstly, this directive will have to be used by the member states to achieve the objectives of europe 2020. the conditions for entry and residence for students and researchers in particular will encourage a more rapid internationalisation of our education systems. it is about making the union more attractive, more competitive and achieving a europe of knowledge and innovation: that is our objective, and we are taking a real step forward today. another important and welcome feature of the text is that it sets out measures to ensure better protection for trainees by giving a member state the possibility to ensure that the traineeship does not replace a job. finally, i would like to call for this new directive to be taken into account in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. education, research and the promotion of cultural exchanges remain objectives and means of building bridges between europe and its neighbours, in particular with the mediterranean region. this directive makes perfect sense when applied to our neighbours. it is a mutual investment between us and our neighbours, especially for young people, and we know how crucial it is to provide opportunities for young people in some of our neighbouring countries. i am glad that we can conclude this dossier and encourage a smart, controlled policy and circular migration here.
i welcome the forthcoming decision of the european parliament. europe should be home to all the smart, young scientists and innovators. the european commission has launched a new initiative to promote the integration of refugees into the european union. but what do we do about the brain drain inside the european union? my homeland bulgaria is a victim of emigration. millions of young and intelligent bulgarians were driven abroad by hunger and misery and became part of the intellectual elite of britain, france, spain and other european countries. but we also need to be careful about the necessary safeguards for european nations. we must selectively admit to europe only those students and scientists who are sure to increase our intellectual potential and the high-tech industries for which there is a shortage of labour.
mr president, in the current migration crisis, we often forget that, apart from illegal immigrants and refugees, europe is also attractive for highly qualified staff from third countries. the ageing population and the shortage of skilled labour are worrying in terms of the need to develop the information technologies, the digital market and research that are to be the future of the european economy. the conditions must therefore be created to attract the best talent in the world. i therefore welcome the agreement reached with the council on facilitating the travel of students and researchers from third countries within the european union. given the cross-border nature of much research and the joint work of a number of european research centres, such facilitated mobility is of paramount importance not only for scientists but above all for the development of european science. at the same time, of course, we must not overlook the need to find jobs for the millions of unemployed european citizens - especially young people - and to create the conditions for them to set up a thriving european business and find work that matches their qualifications and abilities. as european legislators, it is our duty to protect the interests and rights of european citizens in particular, and that is why i once again call for respect for the right to free movement within the european union without applying discriminatory measures or treatment to citizens of certain member states.
in writing. ‒ we cannot force one or another sector to comply with a regulation or directive before it has passed the scrutiny of that sector. yes, we do need to get investment brokers to comply with our legislation, but only after the audit is over. it may be that 31 december 2020 is a long way off, but it is better to do the audit well and not put time pressure on the auditors so that they can do their job properly.
in writing. – regulation 575/2013 exempts commodity dealers from large exposure requirements and from own funds requirements until 31 december 2017. it also requires the commission to prepare reports by 31 december 2015 on the prudential supervision of commodity dealers and of investment firms in general. applying large exposure requirements and own funds requirements to commodity dealers should not come as the result of a lapsed exemption but on the basis of a thoroughly reasoned decision. therefore i vote for the proposal extending the capital requirements exemption for commodity dealers under the capital requirements regulation (crr).
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mrs diaz de mero because i believe that the proposed regulation provides a clear and comprehensive legal basis for europol, which broadens its powers and in practice enables it to tackle and respond more effectively to the challenges we face today. i also support the proposal in the new regulation that introduces a mechanism that provides for europol to be subject to scrutiny by the european parliament together with the national parliaments. i believe that europol needs to become more effective in the support it provides to member states to fight terrorism and to tackle all forms of organised and serious crime.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it provides for a strengthening of europol's mandate and a significant improvement in the agency's leverage to counter the increasing cross-border crime and terrorist threat. i am very pleased that the new rules will allow europol to respond more quickly and effectively to new security threats. for example, the agency will be able to exchange information directly with private entities such as companies or ngos to more quickly remove terrorist propaganda online. i welcome the agreement reached, as it will also help to avoid any gaps in the information needed to ensure the security of european citizens. to this end, the new rules oblige eu member states to provide europol with the information it needs to carry out its tasks. at the same time, guarantees for enhanced data protection and parliamentary scrutiny are provided, which go hand in hand with europol's new powers. i consider it to be a very democratic decision to have europol's work monitored by the joint parliamentary scrutiny group, composed of members of national parliaments and the european parliament. there is also a clear procedure for citizens' complaints under eu law.
in writing. ‒ there is a general feeling that the european union needs measures to ensure the security of its citizens. strengthening europol's mandate is a step in that direction. the texts adopted enhance the agency's capacity to counter terrorism and serious organised crime. it also improves europol's accountability to the european parliament and to the parliaments of the member states and lays down clear rules on the exchange of information between services and measures to protect personal data. the new legal framework will allow europol to respond more quickly to modern threats, such as the tools to tackle terrorist propaganda online. we are witnessing a new impetus in european integration towards ever closer and more effective cooperation in the field of policing. i do not hide my support for the creation of strong european institutions in the so-called area of freedom, security and justice of the european union.
in writing. – the european police office (europol) is the eu’s law enforcement agency, whose remit is to help make europe safer by assisting law enforcement authorities in eu member countries. creating harmonized, high level of data protection covering police and judicial activities in the union is crucial as a mean of respecting and safeguarding the fundamental rights of eu citizens. therefore i vote for the the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol).
in writing. ‒ i have decided not to support this report and to vote against it. a stronger and clearer framework of rules and requirements needs to work effectively in both directions to allow for some academic exchange and not undermine the ability of eu citizens to compete across the eu. the effect of too high inflows can be seen most strongly in countries with the lowest development indicators, where students still lack sufficient opportunities to benefit from exchange and other academic programmes. we need to focus first on improving the eu's existing internal challenges before thinking globally. i feel that some concerns have not yet been addressed strongly enough by this directive.
in writing. – i strongly believe that education and r&d are of paramount importance for the development of every country within the eu, therefore, we need to be constantly sustaining and improving our relationships with all countries that are willing to work together. i vote for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, training, volunteering, pupil exchange and au paring to further strengthen our international relationships.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the oral question to the commission with a motion for a resolution on accelerating the implementation of cohesion policy. cohesion policy is part of the eu's regional policy and aims to create jobs, business competitiveness, economic growth and sustainable development. the funds allocated to cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 represent one third of the eu budget, but its implementation, as well as that of the related operational programmes, has been extremely slow. the commission is invited to accelerate the simplification process in order to help member states to improve the absorption of funds and to improve their administrative capacity.
in writing. ‒ the cohesion policy is eu’s main investment and development policy that covers all eu regions. by enhancing social and economic cohesion it aims to bring the eu closer to its citizens. having said that, in order for all regions to become competitive and to facilitate investment, we should accelerate the implementation of the cohesion policy. timely implementation is the key not only for the successful fulfilment of the europe 2020 strategy, in which the cohesion policy is a central pillar, but also to avoid member states’ decommitment of funds. it is important to note that achieving timely implementation will require administrative capacity building both at national and regional level. therefore, the commission should support the strengthening of member states’ administrative capacity. we should launch effective communication policy in order to raise public awareness of cohesion policy implementation so people to gain a better understanding of the results and impacts of cohesion policy.
in writing. with a budget of almost €350 billion by 2020, cohesion policy is an important investment and development mechanism in the eu, and in some member states it is the main source of public investment. at the same time, however, the information indicates that, although two years have already passed since the beginning of the current programming period, there are delays in the implementation of cohesion policy. by supporting this resolution, i join the call to the european commission to make full use of the opportunities offered by the european structural and investment funds to strengthen social cohesion between the different european regions and to reduce the territorial disparities to which delays in the funds are detrimental. an important finding from the previous period is that administrative capacity at national, but also at regional and local level, is a key precondition for the successful implementation of cohesion policy and for increasing the competitiveness of regions. i therefore believe that the european commission should support the strengthening of administrative capacity for the policy implementation phases.
mr president, the events of the past few months have shown that the european asylum system as it stands cannot cope. europe was facing an unprecedented crisis that placed a disproportionate burden on several countries. it turned out that the temporary protection directive, created specifically to deal with sudden migratory flows, could not be applied as it did not provide for a mechanism for mandatory responsibility sharing. we must learn the right lessons from this experience. we need a comprehensive reform of the system that ensures genuine european solidarity, not measures that are unable to deal with the problems in the long term. while the commission proposal does not envisage a centralised european system, the automatic application of a corrective allocation mechanism for asylum seekers is a step in the right direction. i therefore call on the council to support the proposed amendment in the interests of finding a more long-term solution.
in writing. the current dublin mechanism needs to be amended to ensure a fair distribution of responsibilities between member states. the frontline countries should not bear a disproportionate burden, investing significant resources and bearing sole responsibility for the protection of the eu's external border. a new mechanism must be able to work in the long term, not just to overcome the current crisis. it is also important to take into account the lessons learned from the implementation of relocation and resettlement mechanisms. the right to protection must be guaranteed, but at the same time the possibilities for abuse must be avoided. this means clearly distinguishing between those who are fleeing war and those who are entering the eu illegally. all common action in the field of migration policy should be based on the principle of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibilities.
the events of 2015, namely the unprecedented number of migrants and the terrorist attacks in paris, have shown that the actions taken so far to manage the external borders of the european union are not effective in addressing today's challenges. more importantly, events have demonstrated the invariable link between the need to protect the external borders of the european union and the preservation of the free movement of people within the european union and schengen. i believe that the legislative proposals currently under discussion, such as the european border guard, will lead to better and more efficient management of external borders, and the most important thing is to ensure a pan-european approach rather than individual action by member states. only in this way will it be possible to guarantee the integrity and the future of the schengen area. i want to emphasize here that the european union and schengen will be more secure if bulgaria is accepted as a member of schengen as soon as possible. as the european external border, we are responsible for ensuring the security not only of bulgarian citizens, but also of all over 500 million europeans. the work of the bulgarian border police in combating foreign fighters and illegal migration across european borders has proven to be extremely successful and is often held up as an example. i can safely say that bulgaria is better at protecting its borders than some schengen members. acceptance of the country in schengen and providing full access to the relevant information systems will inevitably contribute to greater european security. the future of schengen depends on our willingness to take more european action, and that includes bulgaria's admission to schengen.
madam president, the schengen area is one of the most significant achievements of modern europe. it guarantees the free movement of hundreds of millions of citizens of the european union. however, in the past year, six schengen members have reintroduced internal border controls for reasons related to the refugee crisis. this temporary introduction of border controls has a negative impact on trade, but above all it has important implications for the european project, expressed in euroscepticism, anti-immigrant and populist rhetoric. i therefore believe that we must restore the normal functioning of the schengen area by the end of this year at the latest. to do this, we need to ensure the protection of the european union's external borders, and this can be achieved with the newly created european border and coast guard. it should be based on shared responsibility and solidarity, and member states which are not yet part of the schengen area, such as bulgaria and romania, should also participate in it. i believe that returning to the normal functioning of the schengen area is a return to the foundations of european integration.
on behalf of the ppe group. mrs the chairman, mr commissioner, madam, i have to ask you to stop. minister, we heard clearly that there are important and accelerated steps to move forward on the visa liberalisation roadmap with turkey. we support the agreement between the european union and turkey, but we also have a very clear position on visa liberalisation. in this context, i would like to draw attention to three aspects: first, support for visa liberalisation with turkey can only be given if all criteria are met. it is the commission's responsibility to formally confirm that all the requirements have been met by turkey, not just to have a time frame in which we expect this to be done. the fulfilment of all the indicators will ensure the reliability of the process. in a nutshell: we cannot vote in the european parliament on such liberalisation before the criteria have been met and before the council has given its approval. secondly, i welcome the commission's linking visa liberalisation to the implementation and proper application of the eu-turkey agreement. this means a steady low number of migrants coming from turkey and effective readmission. thirdly, i congratulate the commission on its proposal to revise and optimise the safeguard mechanism for the abolition of the visa-free regime. our efforts should be directed towards the creation of an efficient, including emergency braking system for protection in emergency situations. the mechanism should also be introduced in parallel to the possible adoption of the visa liberalisation decision, rather than afterwards. in conclusion, relations between the european union and turkey are at a key stage. a clear indication of efforts to change legislation where necessary to meet the criteria and to effectively and sustainably implement the legislation already adopted is needed. resilience and dialogue are key to our partnership with turkey. finally, i believe in our constructive role as the european parliament, in which we as co-legislators will take the time to analyse all the details thoroughly and thus reach our decision.
mr president, the decision to liberalize visas for turkish citizens was made under duress. under pressure because turkey is trading visas with its obligation to take refugees back into its territory from greece. only 396 returns of refugees have been made since the eu-turkey agreement came into force. that's what the council calls a good result, and i call a very bad result. the commission cannot convince us that all 72 criteria for visa waiver are met, because that simply isn't true. if the commission is convinced that it offers a good asylum policy and reliable solutions for the protection of the external borders, why then should this fire decision be taken? it is unacceptable, commissioner, that you do not ask the national parliaments. there are no serious guarantees on the authenticity of passports, the risks of forgery and trafficking of identity documents. we are not convinced of the turkish authorities' intentions to cooperate with europol in the submission of information to european databases, nor in the change of anti-terrorism laws. the visa decision is not just a technical one. we lack political analysis of its consequences, especially in terms of border security, of citizens. we are not prepared to accept another big wave of economic migration from turkey, let alone the many who will seek political asylum. in bulgaria, commissioner, we have a wonderful proverb. she says, "measure twice and reel once". i think it's extremely relevant to today's situation.
commissioner, this unreasonable proposal for an agreement is another grave political mistake by the european commission. the dictator erdogan daily mocks you in your eyes, even recommending you to go your own way, which is usually somewhere far away. at the same time, in turkey, every day, freedom of speech, freedom of association, journalists are being imprisoned, journalists are being killed, political opponents, people's representatives are being beaten in their national assembly building. turkey has been engaged in ethnic cleansing and genocide against the kurdish people and has been proven to be arming, treating and funding the activities of this sinister organisation. in light of this, you are offering us visa liberalisation. the proposal is a humiliating and unworthy mockery of the principles of the so-called european values that you claim to uphold. i therefore recommend that you, commissioner, address your colleagues and tell them clearly and to their face that this agreement is harmful, unwise, that it is the product and result of political hypocrisy and please do not deceive us that the criteria have been met. we all know that's a lie.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her remarkable work. full implementation of the trafficking in persons directive is key to our fight against 21st century slavery. i want to draw attention to four points: first of all, we won't get tired of saying it. prevention. broad information campaigns on the problem of trafficking in human beings, including on gender equality, are needed from early school age. education and training are a cornerstone for reducing the risk of being caught in a human trafficking network. second, early identification, appropriate assistance and protection for victims. member states should improve their systems for identifying victims. it is necessary to increase the number of crisis centres to house them and to strengthen programmes for their reintegration into society. third, tracing money is a key strategy for investigating and prosecuting organised crime networks that profit from human trafficking. europol and eurojust have an important role to play here. last but not least: enhanced cooperation with third countries. neither europe alone nor the member states individually are able to tackle this global challenge. only a coordinated approach at international, national and interinstitutional levels can give a worthy response. finally, i would like to congratulate miria vasilia , the european coordinator for combating trafficking in human beings, on her strong commitment and dedication and to congratulate her and her team on the good work they have done.
mr president, the european parliament's research is shocking. what it turns out is that we have all the legislative conditions, measures have been taken by the security agencies, but there is no real result in reducing the trafficking of women and children. moreover, a large percentage of the victims and perpetrators are from european countries. the number of human rights instruments is inversely proportional to the actual results. how else can we explain that it is in european countries in the 21st century that we can speak of "white slavery", of trafficking and exploitation of children? we have new challenges. we're busy making policies to curb migration and the refugee crisis, but we're doing nothing about the well-established canadian networks that literally sell women for sexual exploitation or black-market labor. mrs jurova, the european commission must step up its monitoring of member states' implementation of this directive, because almost nothing is being done to prevent and protect victims. we also need better coordination between security services and european agencies to crack down on transnational criminal organisations.
madam president, the debate on the situation of the crimean tatars is extremely timely, and the resolution openly presents the discriminatory actions against the population of the crimean peninsula. the authorities of the peninsula continue to apply repressive measures against the population, including arbitrary arrests and travel bans. in recent days, the ministry of justice has effectively banned the tatar representative body mejlis, whose activity was absurdly labeled extremist, and community leaders refat chobarov and mustafa dzhemilev continue to live in exile with a ban on entering the peninsula. these events have unleashed yet another wave of discontent with the ruling government in crimea and the international community cannot be left unmoved. otherwise, we will remain bystanders and passive participants in the systematic violation of human rights in the region. therefore, i call on all parties ruling the crimean peninsula to immediately cease all repressive practices against the civilian population. the crimean tatars are an integral part of the population of crimea and their cultural heritage should be respected.
author. madam president, the european union's partnership with djibouti is important, particularly in the regional context of the horn of africa, for the promotion of peace, security and the fight against piracy. this is precisely why we are particularly concerned today about the deterioration of the political climate, which has the potential to destabilise the country and, subsequently, the region. i have three comments to make. the european union must first encourage the djiboutian authorities to ensure respect for human rights, the rule of law and democratisation, in particular by giving greater attention to these aspects in the framework of the national indicative programme. secondly, for the sake of the credibility of this assembly, it is important that we concentrate on the most problematic aspects at the moment and not get lost in too many different considerations. in djibouti, efforts have been made to promote women's rights. the role of women in society is recognised as important, more so than in other countries in the region. let us not lose sight of our priorities. the urgency is not there. finally, i encourage colleagues to maintain a factual and documented approach to allegations. we can issue warnings, we can ask for investigations and we can ask for justice to be done, but we do not have the authority to pass judgments. thank you all for the constructive work on this resolution!
in writing. ‒ i supported the rosati report as it is an amendment to the administrative cooperation directive, which, in particular, introduces the additional requirement for automatic exchange of information by country. i support the creation of a system of uniform standards along the lines of those introduced by the oecd to avoid creating different levels of standards, reporting requirements and creating a burden on small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. ‒ i supported the text because in the wake of the panama papers tax avoidance scandal, it is vital to end tax secrecy and abuses. within the eu almost eur 1 trillion is being lost due to tax evasion and avoidance. the problem knows no borders and affects every european citizen, so we should join efforts to stop it. in this context, we should support the extension of automatic information exchange at eu and global level. the amended directive 2011/16/eu is the first step towards more transparency and the effective fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning.
in writing. – surely economic policies are always frowned upon from the business world, but nevertheless they are needed to enable a functioning relationship between individuals and firms in the business world and national governments. there has been much controversy about taxation lately, so perhaps it is time to rethink the rules concerning the exchange of information in the field of taxation. i vote for the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation to enable a more transparent and fair taxation process concerning eu citizens and businesses.
in writing. – european citizens deserve to consume fishery and aquaculture products of good quality and clear origin. unfortunately, nowadays fish products that are being sold on the eu market are not labelled and have unclear origin. in fact, this practice is a breach of eu regulations, in particular the common fisheries policy, and may constitute a criminal offence under national law. in order to tackle successfully this illegal practice, we should promote an eu wide ecolabel for fisheries and aquaculture products in order to provide transparent information to consumers. should we manage to implement an eu ecolabel then we will guarantee the health of eu citizens, development of the eu fishing industry, protection of eu marine resources from illegal fishing. therefore, it is our duty to support and improve traceability of fishery and aquaculture products on the eu market.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in food and retail establishments because i strongly believe that consumers have the right to make informed choices and have access to the right information. however, observations in recent years have shown that there are high levels of mislabelling of fishery products sold on the eu market. the deliberate and fraudulent mislabelling of fish species is a breach of eu legislation, including the common fisheries policy, and may constitute a criminal offence under national law. labelling is not a luxury, but information which must give access to sufficiently comprehensive and accurate information, given the increasing problems arising from the consumption of unhealthy food. in this context, i also share the view that eu-wide eco-labelling of fishery and aquaculture products can improve traceability and provide transparent information to consumers.
in writing. – the eu and china are two of the biggest traders in the world. china is the eu’s second largest trading partner and the world’s second fastest growing economy. having regard to that, it is of great importance for us to develop bilateral relations between the eu and china. however, eu-china trade relations should be based on mutual respect and fair cooperation, in full compliance with wto rules and fundamental human rights. the chinese economy should not be granted economy status because it does not fulfil the five eu criteria. unfortunately, so far the chinese economy is still largely controlled by the state and the government does not provide effective legal framework to protect individual property rights (including intellectual property rights). in addition, the chinese government usually uses its power to supress people’s labour, civil and human rights. the eu has a responsibility to ensure the inclusion of labour and human rights (especially intellectual property rights) in its trade with china. on the other hand, the chinese government should leave the market alone, because market liberalisation in practice improves ties among nations, increases a country’s wealth and promotes human rights. in fact, market liberalisation is the only path to a normally functioning market economy and fulfilment of the five eu criteria.
in writing. china is an important economic partner for europe. the country is a large market with opportunities to deepen relations and to sell more european goods on the chinese market. i strongly believe that the country's economic growth trends create a prerequisite for more quality agricultural products such as organic products, but also for food with geographical indications for the chinese market. at the same time, however, i supported this resolution, on the basis of views on the functioning of the chinese market, because i believe that the people's republic must make further efforts to achieve market economy status. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers were not able to compete with the union producers. this in turn creates conditions for unfair competition in bilateral trade, and this poses risks to the livelihoods of european producers and industries. in this regard, i supported both this resolution and, in particular, the call that until china meets all five eu criteria to meet the market economy definition, the eu should adhere to the relevant provisions of the protocol of accession of china to the wto and propose further steps in line with this principle.
in writing. ‒ china is our second largest trading partner, while the eu is china's largest, with an average daily trade of over one billion euros. at the same time, out of all 75 anti-dumping measures in force in the eu, 56 are against chinese imports. in practice, the eu acknowledges the existence of a state dumping policy on chinese exports, but it must further strengthen the protection of the european industry against such unfair practices. the chinese state's intervention with subsidies and other support to form non-market prices in exports is sufficient evidence of the absence of market economy status not only by european criteria but also by wto criteria. i call for all acceptable and lawful solutions to be found to prevent the european economy from being further exposed to the dangers of china's non-market trade practices, which threaten to lose hundreds of thousands of jobs in various industrial sectors. the overcapacity in china today, which is many times greater than the production capacity of the european steel, ceramic, glass, solar panels, etc. sectors, is a real threat to our economy with significant economic and social consequences, including massive job and business closures. the eu cannot afford for this to happen.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution because it is indeed crucial that the political and financial commitments made under the 2030 agenda are implemented swiftly and effectively. the european union has managed to speak with one voice and has been a leader in inclusive negotiations for the 2030 agenda. in particular, the integration of rule of law, democracy and good governance issues, notably in objective 16, is marked by the european approach. without a strong european strategy, guaranteeing the coordination and coherence of our policies, we will not be able to live up to what we have defended in the negotiations. monitoring and review of this agenda will therefore be crucial to achieving the expected results. the european union and its member states must now review the european consensus on development to fully reflect the 2030 agenda. finally, as the resolution underlines, the mid-term review of the annual financial framework will also be an important way of reflecting the commitments made by the union in the 2030 agenda.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the follow-up to the 2030 agenda and its review, as i believe that achieving the sdgs offers the eu an opportunity to turn commitments into concrete action. it is essential to develop a comprehensive sustainable development strategy that covers all relevant internal and external eu policy areas and that will encourage all member states to commit to achieving the sdgs and to adopt appropriate national frameworks for their implementation and enforcement. i believe that europe's role should be strengthened, not only as the main donor of humanitarian aid, but also as an active factor in shaping the development of the world. this will enhance cooperation in shaping new security strategies, addressing global crises, challenges and threats, and implementing the 2030 agenda for sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because the 2030 agenda for sustainable development seeks to build on the millennium development goals and complete those goals which have not been achieved. therefore, the main goals and targets of the 2030 agenda over the next 15 years have been put in areas of crucial importance for humanity and the planet, such as: people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership. it should be emphasised that the eu has played an important role in shaping the 2030 agenda, through public consultations, dialogue with its partners and in-depth research. the eu should continue to play a crucial role, this time in the implementation of the agenda. a good starting point for this will be if we manage – through coordination, dialogue and joint work at all levels within and between eu institutions – to ensure the integration of this universal agenda in eu internal and external policies. thus, the eu will have an opportunity to make the world a better place by 2030.
in writing. – this agenda is a plan of action for people, planet and prosperity. it also seeks to strengthen universal peace in larger freedom. we recognise that eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions, including extreme poverty, is the greatest global challenge and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development. all countries and all stakeholders, acting in collaborative partnership, will implement this plan. therefore i vote for the agenda 2030 and sustainable development goals.
in writing. ‒ i fully support this report and have therefore decided to vote in favour. in fact, we totally need more differentiation. it is not possible to put all dairy products on the same level in terms of economic cost and labelling. the commission fails to distinguish product characteristics in general when it comes to information from different analyses. i agree with the rapporteur that the costs will be considerably lower. moreover, labelling is already a reality for many other products and therefore, as it is not new, it should not be very difficult for businesses to adapt when it comes to certain foods. with the increase in trade and the huge variety of products, it must be possible to ensure that consumers can have a well-earned trust in the product they buy.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foods because i believe that consumers have the right to make informed decisions and know what they are consuming. the horse meat scandal of a few years ago has engulfed several countries and has put the image of all their producers in question. europe is culturally diverse and the traditions of some cannot and should not be imposed everywhere. the scandal in question proved that. therefore, without opposing the principle of free movement of goods within the union, i believe that by introducing mandatory information, the risk of an instant collapse of a strong public image - a subject extremely sensitive for the newer eu member states, including my own country - is reduced. i also see the potential for business through the introduction of labeling. it will allow for greater visibility and reinforce the regional identity of producers, which will help to enhance their livelihoods. i think this is particularly important for peripheral and non-urbanised regions, which are often a source of meat and milk production. this designation also benefits the development of regional economies, which is why i supported the text of this resolution.
in writing. – food-labelling has become a major issue ever since concrete attention has been paid to how certain foods are produced and manufactured. it is important to create a consumer market for foods which is as transparent as possible, to enable a decent supply and demand on the european market. in my opinion every consumer has the right to know where their food came from, hence i vote for the mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for certain foods.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the framework agreement on parental leave. this report aims to assess the application of eu parental leave legislation by member states. although the rapporteur seeks to outline the state of affairs in all member states, it is clear that the s&d group is using this implementation report as an opportunity to outline its ambitious policy priorities on maternity leave and paternity legislation at eu level. my position, and that of my colleagues, is that motherhood should be defined not by eu legislation but by national legislation.
in writing. – children are, without doubt, the future of europe. hence i believe that every child born in the eu must have the chance to grow up with a caring parent and within a stimulating environment that teaches them the importance of the european values we hold. i vote for the new framework agreement on parental leave to enable parents to take care of their children without being hindered by their professional lives.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings, as it is a serious problem in the european union, which is growing even more with the arrival of illegal immigrants from the south and east. this report focuses on the increase in trafficking in human beings for the purpose of prostitution, which can be defined as a modern type of slavery, and the free movement of people within the schengen area only facilitates this illegal activity. this is why measures to prevent trafficking in human beings, which require joint action and cooperation between the member states of the european union, must be taken. the report voted on is a good step forward, as it contains recommendations for future action, but also addresses the need to identify victims and provide assistance, support and protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting its victims, as trafficking in human beings is a violation of fundamental human rights, as well as a violation of the victim's privacy and a serious form of organised crime that undermines the foundations of the state and the rule of law. member states must vigorously combat impunity, criminalize trafficking in human beings and ensure that perpetrators face justice with adequate sanctions. member states should ratify all relevant international instruments, agreements and legal obligations, which would make efforts to combat trafficking in human beings more effective, coherent and consistent. prevention is essential in the fight against trafficking in human beings and member states should ensure that they do everything possible to prevent people from becoming victims. victims should be provided with the opportunity to obtain legal advice and representation, including for the purpose of claiming compensation. the nature of trafficking suggests that the victim probably does not have the means to pay for this type of assistance, therefore it should be free of charge.
in writing. ‒ trafficking in human beings is a serious human rights violation, but also a lucrative business for traffickers. it is not by chance that this cruel activity is defined as modern slavery, the exploitation of people who are treated as commodities to be sold. typically, victims are involved in a variety of legal and illegal activities ranging from farming and domestic work to the sex industry, begging and human organ trafficking. i believe that the transnational nature of the phenomenon requires a concerted effort by all the institutions involved at national and regional level. it is important to note that the capabilities of the european police office (europol) are not fully exploited by the member states. sharing more information with europol and other member states can contribute to the creation of a broader information architecture that can be the key to tackling problems such as trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking and terrorism. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that training of legal practitioners and officials is essential for the early identification of potential victims and the prevention of crime. i therefore call on member states to exchange best practices, in particular in setting up training programmes for prevention and protection.
in writing. – trafficking in human beings is a serious crime and a gross violation of human rights, which can be classified as a modern form of slavery. it occurs all over the world and affects almost every country as an origin, transit or destination country or sometimes a combination of all. i vote for minimum common rules for determining offences of trafficking in human beings and punishing offenders. i strongly hope that this will provide measures to better prevent this phenomenon and to strengthen the protection of victims all over the world.
member of the commission. – mr. president, i am very grateful to have this opportunity to discuss the important issue of foreign currency loans. taking out a mortgage to buy a home is the single biggest financial transaction that most people undertake in their lives. so we need a vibrant and competitive mortgage market, one where people have choice, but also one where they know what they are buying and what risks they are taking on. one of the products that became popular in recent years was loans made in foreign currencies, and for many years they offered consumers low interest rates. but recent experience has shown that they can become a problem if they are offered to households that cannot protect themselves properly against sudden changes in exchange rates, and here i think loans in swiss francs, provide a good example. these have been popular in countries like croatia, poland, hungary and romania. but when the swiss national bank stopped pegging swiss francs to the euro in january last year, the cost of servicing those mortgages shot up and that left households struggling to keep up with their mortgage repayments, which in turn put pressure on governments to take action to help those who were in difficulty. some countries have already passed laws; others are considering doing so. in terms of what the commission has done for the future, we have acted to ensure that risks associated with foreign currency loans are better managed by strengthening consumer protection in the mortgage credit directive. but that does not deal with the problem of the existing loans in foreign currencies, and here we are working closely with governments that are considering how best to respond. of course, there is a need to protect the interests of consumers, but we also need to make sure that any measures taken are fully consistent with the single market and that they do not restrict disproportionately the free movement of capital or the freedom of european companies to do business anywhere in the eu. we also have to consider the potential damage that would be done to investor confidence if we were to undermine legal certainty. croatia has chosen to pass legislation that allows borrowers to convert swiss-franc loans into euro-denominated loans at an exchange rate that pre-dates the franc's appreciation. it puts borrowers in the position that they would have been had they initially chosen a euro-denominated loan, but it places the cost of the conversion, a cost that i understand is some eur 1 billion, almost wholly on the shoulders of the banks that issued the loans without regard to the different circumstances of the borrowers. the commission was not consulted on the draft legislation, and the croatian government was under no obligation to do so. since its adoption, we have assessed whether croatia's amendments to its consumer credit act and the credit institutions act are compatible with the principles of the single market. let me give you our initial analysis. it is clear that the goal of protecting borrowers to avoid a debt crisis can justify restrictions to the free movement of capital or the freedom of establishment, but in our view, allowing borrowers to exchange their loans from swiss francs into euros at an artificially low exchange rate and placing the cost almost exclusively on lenders goes beyond what is needed to avoid a crisis and protect those borrowers. there is clearly a problem that needs tackling, so we need to find a proportionate solution in line with treaty freedoms and one that helps maintain investor confidence in croatia. the issue has been discussed at the ecofin council. we are monitoring the situation carefully in croatia, but also in other countries that are currently considering passing legislation. we are keeping all options open, including of course opening an infringement procedure if that proves necessary. we are in close contact with the croatian government, who tell us that they are keen to find a way forward and they are talking to the banks concerned to find a more balanced approach that shares the burden of adjustment more fairly. i support that approach, but clearly there must be progress soon or we will have to take appropriate action. so, we need a solution that strikes the right balance, one that is consistent with eu legislation, that protects consumers but also investment and the single market. that is the solution that i will continue to push for, and that is what i want to see in every member state where this is currently a matter of concern.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i cannot help but note that foreign currency loans are extremely widespread in some member states. in particular, swiss franc loans were popular in the recent past in eastern european countries, where about 60% of outstanding loans were taken in foreign currency. the data show that foreign currency loans are mainly held by european households, with a relatively small share held by the corporate and government sectors. it is also noteworthy that only in the united kingdom and luxembourg is a large percentage of loans in swiss francs made to persons who are nationals of other countries, reflecting the status of these countries as international financial centres. the attractiveness of foreign currency loans lies in their immediate benefits, such as lower interest rates and longer repayment terms. however, they carry a lot of risks, as households do not expect to have income in the relevant foreign currency or to be protected from the exchange rate risk. as i mentioned earlier, a few years ago in central and eastern europe, the popularity of loans in foreign currencies, particularly swiss francs, increased because interest rates were much lower in switzerland. people took advantage of these loans to buy real estate. in 2008, however, the value of many of the currencies collapsed against the franc, putting the borrowers in a situation where they had to pay back in local currency an amount many times higher than the value of the loan. as of 2008, bulgarians are the world's top borrowers of foreign currency, with home loans being the most popular. however, according to analyses conducted last autumn, 99% of bank loans are in leva or euros, as these currencies are considered stable and are not expected to be affected by the changes taking place in international markets. while in the 1990s, loans in dollars or francs were popular among my compatriots, since bulgaria's accession to the eu, a large number of businesses and households have benefited from the integration of our country's economy into the european economy and are increasingly using the euro and the lev. this is due not only to the security of the euro but also to the protection that european law affords its citizens. in particular, the unfair terms directive and the case law of the court of justice of the european union provide for a set of rules to replace unfair terms in similar foreign currency credit agreements.
a question asked by raising a blue card. 'you spoke earlier about industry, producers and consumers. do you not think that this is precisely the role of the commission and that is what we should have seen in this proposal, namely measures envisaged by the commission to strike a balance between the rights of consumers and the interests of business without imposing an additional burden or causing harm to either party?
madam president, today’s proposals go in the direction needed and are a positive next step towards the completion of the europe-wide digital single market. the commission’s initiatives show that it is working to ensure that consumers must benefit from opening up national markets. the expectations of citizens and businesses are very clear: break down those barriers in the online world. i am a believer in doing things to the maximum, and i would have liked to see the proposal on geo-blocking being more inclusive. copyright-protected online services, such as e-books and music, but also tv programmes, videos and movies, should not have been left out of the proposed ban on geo-blocking. every day on which the digital single market is not fulfilling its whole potential, european businesses and citizens are losing the opportunity to grow and have more choice. at the same time we as legislators, and european institutions as a whole, are losing credibility. to this end, we have to ensure future—proof legislation which we adopt swiftly. this is why i am certain that the commission will come up with a proposal for a full ban on geo-blocking sooner rather than later. on platforms, they are so diverse and different, as you said, and i am glad the commission has not decided to legislate on something that enriches our lives, that fosters innovation and, most importantly, can be regulated when and if necessary, as we have seen in the past through enforcing existing anti-trust rules.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr lebreton, the g7 finance leaders adopted an action plan calling for increased information sharing to prevent terrorist financing. don't you think that the g7 is an outdated structure that no longer represents the strongest economies, given the absence of china and india, of a number of arab countries there, and that their decisions have virtually no special effect? and don't you think that this structure duplicates other similar structures and that in fact such a debate is, to put it mildly, a waste of time?
mr president, mr timmermans, colleagues, the g7 summit in japan is of particular importance as it takes place at a time when the world is facing numerous global challenges. the deepening of the global humanitarian crisis, the decline of the global economy, the growing threats of terrorism, the impact of climate change and the persistence of ethno-religious conflicts are urgent issues for which the world's leading powers must propose solutions based on concrete priorities and concrete commitments. this is why the european union must play a significant role at the forthcoming g7 summit in japan. the emphasis should be on addressing the refugee crisis, combating terrorism, developing free trade, but also on respecting all the commitments on humanitarian aid made at the istanbul humanitarian summit. the european union must press for greater international cooperation in the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance. last but not least, the european union must show that it is ready to meet its commitments.
in writing. agreeing on a new framework for transatlantic data flows is of paramount importance for eu-us trade and investment. as a result of the digitalisation of our economies, data transfer is becoming increasingly important for bilateral economic relations, contributing to economic growth and competitiveness. businesses on both sides of the atlantic need legal certainty to develop their business, and european citizens need guarantees of the integrity of their personal data and legal remedies. i believe that the new agreement should meet these requirements and create a clear and robust legal framework that ensures effective protection of privacy and data protection. it is important to monitor closely the implementation of the commitments made in order to restore trust between the transatlantic partners. this could provide impetus and contribute to positive dynamics in bilateral relations and other areas of cooperation, strengthening the eu-us transatlantic relationship and supporting efforts to address common challenges globally.
a question asked by raising a blue card. madam president, mr president, i understand from your speech that you are in favour of the idea of a more rapid break-up of national states and the transfer of responsibility to supranational bodies, but do you not think that the way in which crossborder instruments are introduced and the national authorities responsible for their application should be further clarified in order to avoid the transfer of burdens and obligations to national legislation and the member states?
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, thank you very much for this really fruitful debate. according to my understanding, all the services provided by our governments had to be digital by default, open by default and cross-border by default. we all know that those e-governmental services will make our governments more efficient, more transparent, which is extremely important, but if those services are provided in a really transparent way, then this will not create the best environment for corruption for example. not everybody will be happy about this, and also those governments which will provide internet-based services are, as a rule, more inclusive governments. but to involve our people it is extremely important. it is important by the governments to provide their citizens with a single digital identity, and this identity has to be strong, because this is all about trust. once again, if people do not trust those internet-based e-services, they will never start to use those services. about efficiency. single digital identity makes those governmental services but also private services cheaper than usage of traditional signatures. so it is not polite to provide examples always about estonia. but in estonia we think that just because of usage of digital signatures, we were able to save one working week per year, which is equal to 2% of our gdp, which is equal to our defence expenditure. we can say defence expenditure in estonia is coming from digital signatures. so it is a question about efficiency. i would like also to underline the importance of the ‘once only’ principle. i know once again from my own experience how important it was to introduce this ‘once only’ principle. in estonia it took six years to get those first one million digital signatures and then we introduce, the ‘once only’ principle. it means the state has the right to ask for information from their citizens or their companies only once, and it gave a real boost on usage of those digital identities. now, in the country i know best, they are getting more than 1.3 million digital signatures per week already, and the population in estonia is 1.3 million inhabitants. all those digital solutions provided by our governments had to be user-centric, and if those solutions included digital identities, they will be really user-centric solutions, then people they will use those solutions. if signing digitally will take four or five minutes, nobody will start to use those solutions. there are some really good examples. for example, in austria i know people they are using mobile identities quite often, in some other countries also, it is common to use mobile identities instead to use those smart id cards. those solutions, digital solutions, they have to be user-centric and then people they will use those solutions and our people they have to be absolutely sure that those solutions are there, also really safe and well protected. it is true that our registers do not talk with each other. we have in all the countries digital prior business registers, but it is very difficult to get information in a digital way, in a trusted manner, from another country from those business registers. if somebody wants to make business for example here in belgium, but he is coming from some other countries, then how those local people they know who has mandate to represent this company here in this country? it is so easy theoretically to get information from business register, but in real life paper is needed. in the 21st century paper is still needed for that. we have some quite good examples about the regional cooperation, about mutual recognition of digital identities – i know best about this example we have in the baltic states and between finland also – but there are some other examples also. we have already eidas directive which allows mutual recognition of those digital identities, but full implementation of eidas directive takes some time. we have implementation acts. there is cooperation networking in place. the eidas observatory will be launched in the second half of 2016 to boost online trust security and transparency in the digital single market and to facilitate the use of cross-border electronic identification and trust services. but i absolutely agree with those people who say that the european commission has to lead by example, and we will try to do that. so e-procurement it is a real challenge for all of us. according to analysis prepared by the european parliament, if we will be able to use e-procurement across the european union, we can save one billion euros per year. but also this service is based on strong digital identities. in the european commission we have to be ready for full implementation of e-procurement. about organised crime and the refugee crisis. once again, single digital identity based on biometrics is needed. as we know, just recently it happened so that one of those terrorists was able to change his identity in the european union even 7 times. it is a shame. so we have to build up really good interoperability network and we have to introduce in all the eu member states strong digital identities, and we have to fully implement the eidas directive. i am looking forward to really fruitful cooperation in this field between the european commission and the european parliament.
in writing. – i believe that the shift to e-government in europe through the development of e-identification tools and a wide availability of online services is a very important milestone in the development of the digital single market and the future of the european union. it is essential for competitiveness, reducing costs for businesses and making life easier for european citizens and therefore requires ambitious initiatives. in order to ensure the adoption of online services, the deployment of a secure digital identity is necessary to build public trust and ensure convenience. in this respect, we need to support the initiatives for promoting awareness about the opportunities of e-identification. a secure electronic identification is an important step towards data protection and the prevention of online fraud. citizens and businesses need to be able to trust that their data is treated in full respect of existing data protection legislation. without certainty on the legal validity of all these related services, businesses and citizens will remain reluctant to use the digital interactions as their natural way of interaction because they will be unsure of the issue of a possible dispute.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, putting citizens at the heart of the energy union and tackling energy poverty deserves our full attention and thank you very much for the report. the report is very timely because the energy transition and the new technologies are changing how the energy markets work. this can and must bring benefits to all consumers, be it households or industry. however, it is a fact that retail markets for energy are not working today for consumers as they should. consumer satisfaction and engagement in the energy market remain persistently low, and we have seen a trend of rising energy prices for end-consumers across the eu. the new deal for energy consumers is about correcting these shortcomings. our objective is to deliver: a competitive, technology-driven and fair energy market which delivers high-quality energy services to consumers. this means removing barriers for companies with innovative products and services which try to enter the market. we want a market where consumers can make informed choices about the way they consume energy and about the sources of energy they want to consume. and we want a market-based framework to protect vulnerable consumers and fight energy poverty. in the short time that i have today, please let me mention a few issues to make this more concrete. we want bills to be clearer and easier to compare with alternative offers. therefore, we are analysing possibilities for an eu certification scheme for price comparison tools. we have to work on removing the barriers for switching between providers. barriers still exist and harm both consumers and innovative companies. i am pleased to see that parliament recognises the importance of smart technologies in the energy sector. technology costs are falling rapidly. this means that more and more consumers could reduce their energy bills by using technologies like rooftop solar panels, heat pumps or smart meters. demand response and storage solutions must be developed. this is beneficial for energy efficiency and for consumers. but, as rightly pointed out in the report, we need to put the necessary enabling legal framework in place. we must adjust our rules to the energy technologies of the 21st century. we need a better framework for decentralised generation and self-consumption. we need more cooperatives, aggregators, and energy service companies in order to ensure access for those who are not in a position to self-generate, such as tenants and vulnerable consumers. and finally, we need a better and informed debate about energy cost, taxes, levies and subsidies. therefore, we will publish in the second half of this year a report on energy prices and costs that will enhance transparency on the different components of energy prices in the member states. the cost of energy leads me to the second topic of today: energy poverty. let me mention a few figures. in 2014, approximately 10% of eu citizens felt that they were unable to keep their homes adequately warm. since 2000, the share of energy spending of the lowest income households in their total income increased from 6% to 9%, which means a 50% increase. this is significant for the small budgets that these households have. i know from my energy union tour and from the country analyses which we drew up, that we have a very diverse picture in europe but energy poverty is an issue everywhere. of course, well-targeted social policy measures are the most direct and effective tool to address poverty. this is, correctly, the competence of the member states. but nevertheless, the commission is analysing if and how our work can support the member states in addressing energy poverty. the fight against social exclusion and poverty is a cross-cutting policy issue, so let me mention just a few examples. we are analysing if a definition of energy poverty is possible and how it could help address the problem. with your support, thanks to your pilot project on fuel energy poverty, the commission is considering an energy poverty observatory. this will help us to quantify, monitor and identify best practices and we expect to launch this in 2018 following an open tender. we are working with the member states to share good practices. as an example, bulgaria was mentioned by our rapporteur and commissioner arias cañete is travelling just now to bulgaria to speak about the topic in the context of electricity market liberalisation, an area where the commission services have provided support to bulgaria in recent months. the commission agrees that energy efficiency is the most effective way to prevent energy poverty. it reduces greenhouse gas emissions and energy bills. it contributes to better health and living standard, and as for all energy efficiency measures, it creates jobs in the local economy. we have underlined the importance of energy poverty from the very beginning, and we promised in the first state of the energy union report that we would pay particular attention to the issue when reviewing key legislation in 2016. therefore, the report and the resolution which we discuss today are very timely. i would like to thank theresa griffin and all other colleagues involved in this for their work. i would also like to acknowledge the resolution on meeting the anti-poverty target in the light of increasing household costs which this parliament adopted on 14 april 2016. i can promise that we will examine all your recommendations on tackling energy poverty very closely. i am very much looking forward to this debate and i would like to thank you for giving me the floor.
a question asked by raising a blue card. mr president, honourable member, i do not know if the translation was correct, but it seemed to me that you were addressing a colleague in the chamber with the word 'comrade'. that's probably because you haven't lived in a communist country and so you don't know the true meaning of the word. when you talk about state-run energy, don't you think it's better for consumers in individual countries to be able to make decisions about changing their supplier through the mechanism of comparing offers rather than along the lines of socialist planned economy?
in writing. mr president, the general state of the european economy has led to a significant rise in the prices of basic goods and services, which has caused difficulties for hundreds of european citizens, especially those belonging to vulnerable groups such as the elderly and the unemployed. according to eurostat, 40% of the population of bulgaria is unable to keep their homes adequately heated. this is due to factors such as low incomes of the population and low energy efficiency of buildings on the one hand, and a lack of diversity of energy market participants on the other, which leads to high energy prices. the need for an effective and comprehensive energy strategy is therefore more urgent than ever. our efforts should focus on consumer rights by limiting regulated pricing, improving energy efficiency by reducing energy consumption and improving energy infrastructure, ensuring an open and competitive market as a prerequisite for reducing energy poverty.
madam president, i will speak this evening on the visa policy regulation, which obliges the european commission to introduce the principle of reciprocity for third countries which refuse to liberalize the visa regime for citizens of member states of the european union, in this case the united states and canada for bulgarian and romanian citizens. instead of a delegated act, the commission merely stated that no progress had been made and considered the matter closed. at the same time, the european commission is ready to compromise with countries such as turkey on visa liberalisation without all the criteria being met. europe is ready to take this decision under pressure to work the european union-turkey agreement on the readmission of refugees from greek to turkish territory. by the way, so far, there are more ultimatums from erdogan than actual results. the question arises: is the european commission able to protect the interests of all citizens of the european union or is this a selective responsibility? is he capable of not having double standards? we can't expect the trust of our citizens when we don't enforce our own laws.
in writing. the milk market in europe is experiencing a difficult period of low prices and very low profit margins. the milk market observatory recently warned that the current downturn and low prices in the milk sector show no signs of recovery. in the last few months, the price of raw milk has been 13% lower than the average price over the previous five years, whilst the price of whole milk powder has continued to fall - it is 5% lower - and the average price of skimmed milk powder and butter has also fallen. this downward trend in milk prices demonstrates that the existing cap instruments and the measures taken towards dairy farmers are not effective in this area and cannot deal with the crisis in the dairy sector. i expect the council and the commission to present details of the steps that need to be taken in the immediate and long term to relieve the pressure on milk and milk products producers.
in writing. news of earthquakes in the dairy sector is now a daily occurrence. and while bureaucrats may take this for granted, thousands of dairy farms across europe are going bankrupt. these are small and medium-sized family farms which cannot respond to all the market trends that accompany the dairy sector. the milk market watchdog recently warned that the current downturn and low prices showed no signs of recovery. in the last few months, the price of raw milk in europe has been 13% lower than in the previous five years. in my country, bulgaria, the purchase price of milk in some regions has fallen to 15-16 cents, which producers rightly take as a mockery of the labour and investment involved. and for some of them, it's their main and/or only livelihood and source of income. in some regions, such as mountain areas, this is the only economic activity possible. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the cap. this aid should be targeted at specific dairy products specific to each country, rather than those covering the needs of only some of the member states.
in writing. alongside the €500 million financial package to support european farmers, the commission proposed a set of measures to tackle the crisis in the dairy sector, such as the implementation of voluntary agreements on milk production and supply, a temporary increase in state aid, a doubling of the intervention ceilings for skimmed milk powder and butter, advertising campaigns and an increase in international trade, export credits, etc. however, the crisis continues to deepen, dairy farmers are accumulating losses and debts and are threatened with bankruptcy. the average european milk price is below 28 cents/litre, while production continues to grow. the milk production in the first two months of 2016 was 7,4% higher than in the same period of the previous year. it must be clearly emphasized that the main cause of the current situation is overproduction! it is not possible to stabilise the market without limiting milk production in the countries which have increased it after the abolition of the quota system. the measures to temporarily withdraw quantities of milk from the market are not working. the dairy farmers in mountain and less-favoured areas most affected by the crisis need specific support measures, such as buying-in incentives and co-financing of transport costs with european funds, to protect them from bankruptcy and to preserve dairy production in these areas.
in writing. ‒ on the one hand, virtual money is a convenience for its users, making cross-border payments easier and, more importantly, with fees many times lower than those of banks. virtual currency is something innovative, and we're probably going to have a hard time getting this payment environment regulated, but we will have to. it will have to, because these vcs could be used to launder money from terrorist organisations and/or to organise their activities.
in writing. – virtual currencies are a big step towards a digital single market, nevertheless we need to be cautious in underestimating the dangers they could bring due to their exclusivity. i support the draft report, which aims for additional legislation and the establishment of a dedicated task force with budget and staff to address the challenges of virtual currencies, in particular the lack of guarantees and safeguards for consumers, and the volatility of exchange rates. i am a strong supporter of innovation and believe that we should not hinder the development of an innovative digital single market; however i also understand the dangers associated with a virtual currency and want to be certain of its secure and legitimate use for all citizens of the eu.
in writing. ‒ the eesc group and i personally fully support measures and policies that create growth and jobs. we know that in today's time of crisis, they are absolutely necessary. however, we do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right instrument for implementing such policies, nor do we believe that it is an efficient instrument that justifies the investment in terms of reintegrating the displaced workers back into the labour market. we're talking about 6.4 million euros for 200 workers. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ on 7 april 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by moryglobal sas in france. the french authorities argue that the event that led to the redundancies was the bankruptcy and closure of the company. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the edf group and i personally fully support measures and policies that create growth and jobs. we know that in today's time of crisis, they are absolutely necessary. however, we do not believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right instrument for implementing such policies, nor do we believe that it is an efficient instrument that justifies the investment in terms of reintegrating the displaced workers back into the labour market. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ on 14 april 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of greece in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by supermarket larissa abee. the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted abstention on the commission proposal to introduce temporary international protection measures in favour of sweden, freezing the application of council decision (eu) 2015/1523 and council decision (eu) 2015/1601 establishing temporary international protection measures in favour of italy and greece, by which the eu imposed a mechanism for the relocation of 160 000 refugees from italy and greece to other member states. as i have stated many times, i have been against the allocation of quotas for illegal immigrants and refugees from the very beginning. one year after the adoption of the mechanism in question, we all saw that the measures proposed by the commission had not worked. i voted 'abstention' because i think sweden has every right to stop accepting refugees, but i don't think it's the commission's job to decide that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as a whole because i believe that it is an important acknowledgement that progress has indeed been made on some aspects. the fact is that the data flows between the eu and the us are strong and very intertwined, which can lead to reduced protection, as we have seen in recent months. i therefore strongly support the adoption of the new privacy shield, which i consider to be an imperative safeguard in the light of increased and enhanced transatlantic data exchange, and i welcome the initiatives taken in this regard.
in writing. – strong data protection principles are in place in the eu in order to protect citizens’ rights and privacy. in the eu data protection is considered both a fundamental right and a key component of a digital single market. cross-border data flows between the eu and the usa are the highest in the world. personal data exchanges across the atlantic not only boost economic growth but also represent a crucial element of eu-us cooperation in the law enforcement field, and in particular the cooperation between the eu and the us in the field of ‘national security’. nevertheless, large-scale us intelligence collection programmes affect transatlantic data flows and specifically the fundamental rights of europeans, their right to privacy and protection of personal data. we should work in close cooperation with the us administration in order to implement the eu-us privacy shield framework as soon as possible. this framework ensures legal certainty on how personal data should be transferred from the eu to the us. however, in order for the privacy shield agreement to enter in force, the eu should encourage the united states to commit to legislative reform of surveillance laws within a reasonable time. these reforms should be in synchronisation with the protection of personal data under the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ although much of the content of this report is contained in the third energy package, i supported it because it is aimed at the end user and in particular to make it easier for him to be informed and thus to be able to obtain lower electricity prices. also, being aware of what you're actually paying for is also important, because a lot of people in my country don't understand a lot of the things that are included in their payment documents. of course, we have to pay a lot of attention to the energy poor, and there are many of them in bulgaria, and at the same time we do it in an orderly way so that there are no abuses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the introduction of a new trading mechanism for energy consumers, as i believe that there is a need for increased coordination at european union level to combat energy poverty, focused on the idea that access to affordable energy is a fundamental social right. it is necessary to promote cooperation in the area of supporting energy poor citizens by developing a set of good practices to protect the most vulnerable low-income citizens. efforts to reduce energy consumption should not be neglected and, in line with the principle 'energy efficiency is the most important fuel', mechanisms should be put in place to reduce the number of energy-inefficient homes by 2030. i welcome the establishment of the right of citizens to produce and sell their own renewable energy as a fundamental right, and in this respect the reduction to an absolute minimum of administrative obstacles, the reduction and simplification of permitting procedures, of course while ensuring compliance with all rules and requirements.
in writing. – there is no doubt that consumers should play a more active role on the eu single energy market and benefit more from renewable energies and new technologies. the retail energy market will become truly competitive and transparent if we manage to make it more consumer friendly. to do so, consumers should be in meaningful control of their consumption. we should deliver a new energy deal which empowers consumers in a way that they will have clear information on energy bills (prices, consumption and taxes) and protection from unfair commercial practices. empowerment of energy consumers is also related to the notion of self-generation and consumption. citizens should benefit in full from the advancement of green/renewable energy technologies for the home (wind turbines, solar and thermal panels) and the integration of smart home energy management systems. in this regard, we should conduct training and information campaigns in order to fully empower consumers and change their behaviour.
in writing. – making our world a better place for next generations to come is something that concerns all of us. in this regard there is one issue which cannot stay unaddressed. the fact that we need to move away from energy creation from non-renewable resources is key considering a long-term perspective for both the wellbeing of humanity and our planet. i therefore support the european commission’s communication on ‘new deal for energy consumers’, which is part of the ‘summer energy package’ launched in july 2015 aiming at bringing the energy union together. there is a need to move away from a centralized, inflexible energy system to one which is more decentralized, flexible and renewables-based and it is in our interest to be able to offer the citizens of the eu a new alternative.
in writing. - mr. and mrs. president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a new trading mechanism for energy consumers means the development of a consumer-oriented energy market in which the problem of energy poverty must find an adequate solution. there are a variety of mechanisms that should be activated. in order to ensure that the energy efficiency of buildings is not compromised by the energy efficiency of buildings, the commission should be able to adopt a decision on the application of this regulation to the energy efficiency of buildings. they're following policies to reduce household bills. this includes mandatory reductions in energy consumption in buildings through energy efficiency improvements, which is a widely recognised effective policy across the eu and should be prioritised for energy poor citizens. this also includes an active role for consumers in optimising consumption, for which they need to be better informed about the profile of energy consumption, about the opportunities to consume in low-cost hours and to have such services offered competitively by energy retailers. without fair energy prices in a well-functioning competitive market, there are no good solutions to energy poverty. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the energy sector, including on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'abstention' on the report on poverty through the lens of gender equality because, although i agree with many of the proposals in the report, many of them are contradictory and involve the taking of supranational decisions in areas which are the exclusive competence of individual member states. the problem of women's poverty and social exclusion has been widely discussed, and previous resolutions have called for consideration of the causes and consequences of aspects of this social insecurity. in general, women are more at risk of poverty, and i therefore fully support some of the report's proposals, such as the elimination of the gender pay gap, measures to promote work and private life, flexible working hours (on a voluntary basis), the role of education in improving the situation of women, and support for female entrepreneurship. on the other hand, my group and i cannot agree with some of the elements of this motion for a resolution, such as the call for the european commission to set a minimum wage, which is the exclusive right of individual member states and should not be decided at a supranational level.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on poverty through the lens of gender equality. according to the latest eurostat data, the number of women in poverty remains consistently higher than that of men, with some 64 million women currently in poverty compared to 57 million men. i believe that gender equality achieved in the labour market by increasing social and economic well-being benefits not only women but also the economy and society as a whole. the budgetary constraints imposed by the commission and implemented by the member states, in addition to the economic crisis of the last few years, have increased inequality and affected women in particular, exacerbating the problem of poverty among women and leading to their increasing exclusion from the labour market, leading to social exclusion and lack of participation in public life in terms of access to education, culture and information, justice and primary health services. i believe that gender equality provides a tool to combat poverty among women, as it has a positive impact on productivity and economic growth and leads to greater participation of women in the labour market.
in writing. – i voted in favour because the number of women in poverty remains permanently higher than that of men. unfortunately, the feminisation of poverty is a complex issue related above all to gender discrimination, gender stereotypes and the ever-changing nature of the labour market. because of discrimination and stereotypes women often are employed in precarious and low-paid work and non-standard employment (outside the scope of national labour law). often women’s wages are less than men’s, unequal pay for equal work. at work women are usually victims of labour exploitation and even sexual harassment. it is our moral duty to change this negative trend by empowering women in social, economic, cultural, scientific and political fields. expressed in other words, women’s inclusion in sectors where they have been under-represented is the key to end the feminisation of poverty not only in europe but in the whole world.
in writing. – according to statistics there are now more than 65 million women living in poverty, compared to 57 million men. the draft ini report focuses amongst others on the root causes of female poverty, the scope of women’s poverty in the eu and the impact of social exclusion through poverty on the living and working conditions. it concludes, amongst others, that female poverty is caused by a variety of factors: stereotypes, pay gaps between men and women, lack of work—life balance, and all kind of gender— based discrimination which affects mainly women. i vote in favour of this issue to be able to enable a better and fairer handling of issues concerning gender equality.
in writing. ‒ the creation of a single market is perhaps one of the most important things the eu is trying to tackle, and any attempt to sabotage it must be stopped at an early stage. i understand member states trying to keep 'foreign' players out of their national markets for fear of competition, but i can only assure them that the single market is in everyone's interest. i hope that the review of non-tariff barriers will be completed in time and that the ways of removing them described therein will be effective. i'll be watching this review with interest.
in writing. ‒ mr president,the removal of customs barriers through cooperation and the sharing of common values is one of the greatest achievements of the european project. however, within the single market, non-tariff barriers still exist that prevent europe from reaching its full potential. the report on non-tariff barriers rightly focuses on the actions that should be taken to improve the efficiency of the single market. among them is the call for member states to abandon protectionist measures and open up their internal market to the more competitive european market. to achieve this, the commission should strengthen the enforcement and advocacy of these principles. in this way, it will ensure that member states comply with the rules relating to the single market, rather than creating new, additional legal provisions on matters already covered by existing legal rules. finally, all member states, the commission and the european parliament must unite around the removal of existing non-tariff barriers. in this way, our market will become more accessible and competitive for our businesses and our citizens. as final consumers, our citizens will experience tangible benefits from the removal of non-tariff barriers through more competitive prices and increased benefits in a fully functioning single market.
in writing. ‒ the report highlights the main difficulties faced by companies or citizens when engaging in cross-border trade. the existence of still too many different national provisions poses a serious challenge for companies and individuals to engage in cross-border trade. different countries introduce additional barriers to their markets, which often discourage firms, especially smes, from expanding their activities.
in writing. – i am a strong supporter of a free market economy, nevertheless i understand the importance of regulation in the european free market economy. i vote in favour of the regulation of non-tariff barriers in the single market to help improve our european single market. the report provides the definition, understanding the ntb as being a disproportionate or discriminatory regulatory action which results in a burden or cost to be borne by a firm which seeks to enter a market and which is not borne by firms already in the market, or a cost which accrues to non-national firms which is not borne by domestic firms. at the same time it recognises member state’s right to regulate and to defend public policy objectives, while ensuring that regulatory measures are proportionate. this is vital for understanding the need for a better regulation of non-tariff barriers in the single market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the single market strategy as it provides ways to improve and harmonise the single market. the expected gains from completing the reform of the single market amount to almost eur 3 trillion, and will also lead to the creation of new jobs and the reduction of high unemployment rates within the european union. the report contains many concrete proposals that can lead to improvements in the functioning of the single market in a targeted way, such as a platform to combat undeclared work or the fully electronic public procurement system proposed by the member states. i also fully support the ultimate objective of the reform of the single market which has been initiated, namely the removal of unfair barriers for individual member states within the single market.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i support the proposals in the report on the single market strategy, as i believe they will have a positive impact on the internal market and in particular on start-ups, smes and consumer protection. i am confident that the measures envisaged, which include simplifying vat rules, reducing the costs of registering businesses and creating a digital single market, are important and progressive steps towards further integrating the single market. the fragmentation of the single market remains one of the main obstacles to achieving sustainable and structural economic growth. we must therefore intensify our efforts to build a strategic approach to the single market that becomes a driver of sustainable development and job creation and ensures a highly competitive social market economy at a time when unemployment rates remain high. this report will make a significant contribution to a more ambitious single market strategy by presenting concrete proposals for certain policies and focusing our efforts on building a deeper and fairer internal market that is both modern and progressive.
in writing. – i supported the resolution because the eu single market has brought tremendous benefits for both european citizens and european business. yet the full potential of free movement of goods, services and capital has been unexploited because of ever changing environment of the market. therefore, the eu should adapt new ideas and measures proposed by the new single market strategy in order to stimulate competition, trade, efficiency and quality on the market. the new single market strategy aims to improve mobility for services providers, ensure the growth of innovative businesses and enhance access to goods and services throughout the eu. most importantly, the strategy focuses on helping business, and in particular smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups. these business are not only the backbone of eu economies but also are the main engine of growth and job creation within the eu. in this regard, we should support the single market strategy because it aims to unlock the full potential of the eu single market by promoting entrepreneurship and development.
in writing. ‒ the resolution adopted today is the european parliament's response to the strategy proposed by the european commission to modernise the single market. europe has come through the global financial crisis at a high price. member states' economies continue to languish due to youth unemployment, low growth rates and lack of investment. the single market is at the heart of european integration, but there are still too many obstacles, especially for small and medium-sized businesses and start-ups. few of them go beyond the local or regional market and operate at european level. the european parliament's attention is therefore focused on their needs for simplification of regulatory requirements, access to finance and promotion of innovation. with 423 votes in favour, the european parliament supported the objectives of the strategy and gave a clear signal that it expected it to be successfully implemented soon.
in writing. ‒ completing the single market has always been and remains a key political priority in the european integration process. the report calls for a fairer single market, stressing that a genuine single market should provide benefits and protection for citizens, consumers and businesses, in terms of better quality, greater variety, reasonable prices and safety of goods and services. as regards smes and start-ups, it is important that their capacity for innovation is supported in every way possible, as they are the backbone of the european economy. the strategy adopted is expected to help europe grow economically.
in writing. – the single market strategy is the commission’s global roadmap to unleash the full potential of the single market with the objective of creating a modern, more innovative, deeper and fairer single market. its focus lies in particular on aspects aimed at helping businesses (especially smes, micro-enterprises and start-ups) to scale up their activities, grow and stay in the single market. i support this initiative and report especially in creating call for a simplified vat approach in the e-commerce sector; a call for facilitating smes access to eu funds.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr cristian preda, on his excellent report. as we adopt the 2030 sustainable development goals, as we prepare to revise the cotonou agreement and as the european union faces an unprecedented migration crisis, it is more crucial than ever to redouble our efforts to ensure that policy coherence for development becomes a real mode of action and delivers results beyond the concept stage. i would like to emphasize four elements. first, policy coherence for development must contribute to the establishment of the rule of law, democracy and good governance in developing countries, in order to serve the objective and the ambition of sustainable outcomes. without stable democratic states, development aid is poured over plants that have no roots and are therefore unable to bear fruit. secondly, i would like to stress the key role of national parliaments and the european parliament on the one hand and of the union delegations on the other in ensuring not only horizontal but also vertical coherence of policies. this role needs to be strengthened, particularly in the formulation of policies by parliaments and implementation by delegations. thirdly, ownership is a key issue. in reality, the cdp is about ensuring that in the medium term, each directorate-general, each ministry, each region, each embassy or delegation embraces the objectives of european development policy. efforts must be continued in this direction. fourthly and lastly, i support the rapporteur's idea of a european summit on policy coherence for development. this should allow for concrete recommendations and a renewed commitment to the dpc as a genuine modus vivendi and operandi in all the external dimensions of the union's action. in conclusion, mr president, let us not forget that policy coherence for development is essential to safeguard the union's capacity for action, credibility and budgetary effectiveness. in this sense, i believe that the momentum that was initiated in 2015 through the european year for development to better integrate european citizens into this policy and these debates must continue to be maintained.
last week, the lower house of the german parliament adopted a declaration condemning a grave act of violence, a grave crime against humanity, namely the armenian genocide committed by the young turk government in 1915. and it is the restoration of this historical justice that is provoking an inexplicable reaction from the turkish president and the turkish prime minister. a reaction which shows a complete disconnect between all the so-called european values and the policy which is currently being pursued in turkey and which covers up the crimes committed at that time by the young turk government, whose successor is now claimed to be the turkish prime minister and president. this is the kind of behaviour that shows a deeply flawed policy on the part of the so-called current leaders of the european union, who are making too many concessions to an undemocratic authoritarian government such as the one in ankara.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eradication of illicit trade in tobacco products: protocol to the world health organisation framework convention, as ratification of the protocol by the european union and its member states will accelerate its entry into force. so far, only nine countries have joined the treaty, while 40 are needed to bring it into force. and if the eu ratifies the protocol, that will add another 29 countries to it. the protocol will benefit public health and strengthen the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco, tax evasion and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on endocrine disruptors. i believe it is extremely important and necessary for the european commission to publish the scientific criteria necessary to identify and reduce exposure to substances that lead to hormonal disorders, as they lead to serious adverse outcomes. even the un environment programme/who report has classified endocrine disruptors as a global threat. of concern is the growing prevalence of endocrine disorders in humans. there is new evidence that edcs can have a serious negative impact on reproductive health (cancer, infertility) as well as on thyroid function, brain function, obesity and metabolism, and on insulin and glucose homeostasis. i welcome the decision of the european commission to publish the criteria by the end of june 2016.
in writing. – eliminating the illicit tobacco trade in the eu is a crucial issue for several reasons. it harms public health policies and threatens a legitimate business which causes losses to all tobacco traders within the eu. the illicit trade of tobacco funds organised crime as taxation for such products is high and therefore generates high profits to the smugglers. the eu and member states lose roughly eur 10 billion in lost tax and customs revenue each year making this a serious problem that has to be dealt with. therefore, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the automotive sector employs over 10 million people and probably many more. in my country, more and more manufacturing jobs are being created in the automotive sector, which is something i can only be happy about. given that this sector is one of the largest value-added generators and that manufacturing also constitutes a major part of the budgets of the member states as well as of the eu, we are obliged to maintain and strengthen competitiveness in this sector and to maintain our global leadership in this sector.
in writing. – the cars 2020 action plan suggests that more internationally harmonised vehicle regulations should be implemented, compared to the 1958 agreement so that non-tariff barriers are removed. the automotive industry is an economic sector of great significance to european gdp, accounting for more than 12 million jobs thought the eu. i voted in favour of the revision of the 1958 agreement, so that the european union and its parties could achieve the necessary amendments.
in writing. there is nothing more natural than, once a country has joined the eu, to join the trade agreements that the union signed before its accession. in that spirit, i support this recommendation and the signing of the additional protocol.
in writing. ‒ the eu-columbia-peru agreement has been provisionally applied with peru since 1 march 2013 and with colombia since 1 august 2013. the agreement liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products as well as in services. it also contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. looking from this perspective, it could be argued that it opens up markets for eu, colombian and peruvian exporters, eventually bringing annual savings of more than eur 500 million. however, in order to take into account croatia’s accession to the eu on 1 july 2013, the parties had to agree on the additional protocol to the eu-colombia/peru trade agreement. in 2015, colombia and peru signed the additional protocol to the trade agreement. in light of this, we should work to ensure that respective internal ratification procedures are completed by the commission and the council in order to enable croatia to benefit fully from the wide network of trade agreements the eu has with third countries. in addition, we should work together with peru and colombia to extend free trade agreements to other members of the andean community (ecuador and bolivia) this is an important step for enhancing trade between the two geopolitical regions (europe and andean).
in writing. – as officially an eu member state it is only normal that croatia undergoes the legal steps to enable its participation and open its market to the trade agreement. this accession will highly benefit both the country of croatia, colombia and peru and will show development in the relationships between the parties of the agreement. hence, i vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the decision to use enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of judgments on the property regime of international couples covers both the property regime between spouses and the property consequences of registered partnerships, and is merely a procedural decision. the main problem here is that the decision to allow enhanced cooperation for the first time requires member states to join both instruments (of partnerships and of marriages) simultaneously. however, a number of member states are not familiar with the institution of 'partnerships' (cyprus, bulgaria, romania, slovakia, poland, lithuania, latvia), bulgaria being one of these countries, but they will have to adopt the two regulations on the implementation of enhanced cooperation if they want to adopt the regulation on matrimonial property regimes applicable in the member state concerned. in addition, they will have to recognise the effects of the institution of the 'partnership', which is not recognised by their domestic law and may be considered to be contrary to their public policies, in particular in the field of private international law, as well as to their domestic law, in accordance with the fundamental principles of the member state's legal system. for these many reasons and the lack of clarity as to why these two proposals go hand in hand, i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. – bulgaria is one of the 17 member states that addressed a request to the commission to propose a decision authorising the establishment of enhanced cooperation between themselves in the field of property regimes of international couples. the proposal brings more clarity for international couples managing their property and i fully support it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the eu's accession to the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products to the who framework convention on tobacco control. this report deals specifically with the provisions on obligations relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the definition of offences itself. the protocol will benefit public health and strengthen the international fight against illicit trade in tobacco, tax evasion and organised crime. to this end, the measures proposed by the protocol and implemented by the governments of the states will target the chain of production and distribution of tobacco products. the protocol requires the establishment of a dedicated global supply tracking system within five years of the entry into force of the protocol, with the secretariat of the who framework convention on tobacco control as the centre and main administrator of this information exchange system.
in writing. ‒ i supported the legislative resolution on the conclusion of the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products to the framework convention on tobacco control of the world health organisation. illicit trade in tobacco products damages both the eu budget and that of the member states in the form of unpaid taxes and duties. curbing the illicit trade in tobacco products, which are largely of unclear composition, produced outside the eu and in contravention of tobacco control policies, will help to regulate the distribution of tobacco products within the european market. this will ensure a higher level of protection of the public health of european citizens and at the same time help to combat tax and customs evasion. i believe that the envisaged international cooperation based on specific legislative procedures and the establishment of a global monitoring and tracing regime will enable countries to control tobacco products produced and imported into their territory. this will limit illegal imports and create a precondition for preventing tax fraud and organised crime.
in writing. ‒ eliminating illicit tobacco trade should be a top priority because it is related not only to tax avoidance but also to the health of eu citizens. so far the fight against illicit tobacco trade has been conducted on the basis of the 12-year anti-illicit trade agreement between the european commission, member states and philip morris international (pmi). our shared efforts have delivered an 85% reduction in counterfeit cigarettes. unfortunately, the agreement ends at the end of this year and the reduction in the flow of counterfeit cigarettes has been replaced by a huge increase in so-called illicit-whites – branded cigarettes manufactured outside the eu for the sole purpose of smuggling. nowadays tobacco smuggling represents the foundation of illicit trade of tobacco products in europe and in order to address these issues we should immediately ratify the world health organisation protocol on the illicit trade in tobacco. the protocol aims to tackle tobacco smuggling in particular by encouraging and enhancing international cooperation, valid information sharing, technical and law enforcement cooperation, mutual legal and administrative assistance. some 16 countries have ratified the who protocol, including five eu member states; it is time for the eu to join the international fight against illicit tobacco trade and to make tobacco industry fully transparent.
in writing. ‒ approximately one in ten cigarettes are sold illegally in eu member states. the european parliament has approved by a large majority the protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation's framework convention on tobacco control. the protocol is one of the main global initiatives in this field and aims to eliminate all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. it provides new tools to combat cigarette smuggling, aiming at establishing a global tracking and tracing system. the majority of illicit tobacco products in the eu come from third countries. therefore, effective action to tackle this cross-border problem requires global and coordinated action. i believe that bulgaria, like the eu, has an obligation to fight against the smuggling of tobacco products, which leads to tax evasion and increases the health risk caused by the lack of control. that is why ratification of the protocol is a step in the right direction.
in writing. i supported the report which essentially aims to extend the transposition period of this measure beyond 3 january 2017, knowing that this is unlikely to be the last extension. however, this is not due to member states' reluctance to do so, but to the complexity of the data being collected and the creation of the new framework. financial instrument markets are complex and require careful and very precise handling.
in writing. i fully agree with the actions proposed in this report and have supported it. it is crucial to be cautious when it comes to new framework proposals for new data collection infrastructures. legal certainty and appropriateness are a top priority and it would be unwise for us, as co-legislators of this framework, to disregard the duty of care we have towards european markets, and in particular towards consumers, if we had rushed this report and therefore the timetables. therefore, i fully support the proposal to postpone the deadlines and the application of regulation (eu) no 600/2014 by 12 months.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to appoint rymantas sadzus as a member of the court of auditors, as i believe he has the necessary qualities to be part of this institution. he is the former minister of finance of lithuania, having previously been deputy minister of finance, deputy minister of health, deputy minister of social security and labour. i wish him a fruitful career as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ the eu's programme on policy coherence for development is of paramount importance because it will enable the institutions to achieve better coordination and greater effectiveness of their programmes and policies in developing countries. it is essential that this programme be integrated into all policies related to the achievement of the un millennium declaration as embodied in the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development, because the main problem at international level is the lack of coordination and inconsistency in development policies. despite the importance of this, i decided to vote 'abstention' on the report on policy coherence for development, as i fear that the implementation of the new programme will increase regulatory measures and impose new burdens on our citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted abstention on the motion for a resolution on the new alliance for improving food security and nutrition. this public-private partnership is particularly important for reviving public investment in agriculture in sub-saharan africa, as well as for providing support for private investment and promoting innovation in the agricultural sector. the resolution stresses that agricultural investment policies in africa should in particular support the development of the local economy, including small producers and family farms. i voted 'abstention' because of some points in this proposal with which i do not entirely agree, such as the claim that large public-private partnerships can pose a risk of creating dominant positions for large agricultural companies in african agriculture, which would displace local business.
in writing. ‒ the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) aims to leverage private investment in agriculture in order to improve food security and nutrition by helping 50 million people in sub-saharan africa by 2020. the eu and member states have a key role to play in transforming nafsn into a genuine instrument of support for family farming and local economics in sub-saharan africa. investment in family farming aims before all to boost domestic food production in order to build self—sufficiency, which consequently will decrease the level of food imports /humanitarian aid dependency. i supported the resolution because the eu and member states should support agriculture in sub-saharan africa through national development funds which grant subsidies and loans to family farms. in order to facilitate the process even further, the union should provide education and training to family farmers. last but not least, the eu should work to promote the formation of farmers’ organisations that help farmers possess on the market their production in a way that safeguards the profitability of their production. fighting hunger is a priority enshrined in the first millennium development goal. the eu should continue to contribute significantly to this goal.
in writing. – investing in the development of the agriculture sector is a key step in achieving a better sustainable future. agriculture-based growth supports small-scale farming and helps reduce poverty, hunger and under-nutrition. this is why i welcome the report on the proposal of calling the african governments to invest in local food systems so that they boost rural economies and ensure more jobs opportunities and equitable social safety nets.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the assessment of international accounting standards because it included greater accountability for three organisations that are partly funded by the eu - the international financial reporting standards foundation (ifrs), the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag) and the public interest reporting and disclosure oversight board. it also addresses some general issues regarding the approval process of ifrs financial reporting standards in european law. the committee's position is that the application of ifrss cannot delay or lead to a shift or distortion of competition between market participants. i agree that the approval process of ifrss should be in line with the criteria set out in the international accounting standards regulation.
in writing. – international financial standards are a key component for the effective functioning of the internal market as well as the capital markets. in order for them to continue to do so, parliament, the commission and the council should develop standards for reporting and endorsing the processes. such a development will result in much better results of the appropriateness of the accounting and reporting principles. i voted in favour of the report and support the international accounting standards evaluation.
in writing. ‒ the report on peacekeeping operations the european union's commitment to the un and the african union looks at the eu's participation and contribution to peacekeeping operations in conflict zones and failed states. i decided to support this report because i share the rapporteur's view that the european union should contribute where its contribution will provide the greatest added value, such as by providing training, equipment and logistical support. it is vital that the eu continues to cooperate with its international partners to ensure long-term stability, security and peace in conflict zones, but in no case should this be done by extending the remit of the european external action service to areas such as security and defence or by creating a joint european military contingent. any increase in the powers of the european institutions in such areas would take away from the sovereignty of the member states and i would vote strongly against it.
in writing. – nowadays the political situation and security landscape in africa are very unstable and fragile. sadly, africa has the highest number of inter—state and intra—state conflicts in the world. in the last decade, the number of failed states and ungoverned spaces on the continent has increased, leaving many people affected by poverty, lawlessness, corruption and violence. importantly, disappearing borders within the continent reduce security (statehood), provide opportunities for criminal activity particularly smuggling, fuel violence, help emergence of terrorist and insurgent groups such as al-shabaab and boko haram. it could be argued that insecurity and instability in africa directly affect europe in terms of migrant crisis, smuggling and terrorism, etc. in order to prevent this negative trend, the eu should increase its contribution to peace support operations in africa and expand its collaboration with the un and the african union in a more active manner. in particular, the eu should focus its efforts to enhance conflict prevention and to promote capacity building in support of security and development. expressed in other words, to guarantee the protection of people and to stimulate the stabilisation process, the eu should rely on a holistic approach to peacekeeping operations. a stable and secure africa means a stable and secure europe.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted a resolution endorsing the increase of the eu contribution to operations to build lasting peace in africa and supporting better cooperation between the eu, the un and the african union. the security risks in africa are enormous. the increasing number of terrorist attacks is creating circumstances in which counter-terrorism operations are becoming the rule rather than the exception. this inevitably increases the risk of new refugee flows and terrorist threats to europe. the eu should increase its financial and military contribution to un peacekeeping missions. improving coordination and cooperation between the participating countries and organisations is important for the effective implementation of the tasks. it is in our interest to help these countries build their own capabilities to ensure the security of their citizens.
in writing. – the united nations are the foundations of an international peace and security. counter-terrorism operations dispatch more than 120 000 people serving in africa. if we are to bring ourselves closer to peace and security in the world and the eu, a better coordination, collaboration and communication is to be developed between all members state, the un and the african union. i take the chance to vote in favour of eu engagement to the un and au in order to build a stronger european community, where we could exchange intelligence, information, technologies and training and continue the fight against terrorism and injustice.
unfair trading practices are a stifling factor for producers and processors. in europe, 99.1% of enterprises in the food and drink sector are small and medium-sized. unfair trading practices such as price-cutting, delayed payment and unconditional return of unsold goods are destroying a sector that is losing its attractiveness in part because of these practices. these practices create imbalances and threaten not only people with fragile livelihoods but also the functioning of the single market as a whole, because they would create conditions for price undercutting, which is a prerequisite for malformations and closures of local businesses. by pressuring producers, these practices also deprive consumers of the right to make an informed choice about whether producers are paid a fair wage for their production. measures must be proposed at national level to guarantee a fair income for producers, because they are essential to maintaining food security in the european union. i therefore strongly believe that the european union should propose binding measures to protect loyal traders and to stop or minimise unfair practices.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, as it focuses on the range of unfair trading practices that are spreading across the european union, while also highlighting good practices in the member states to improve the fight against these practices through legislation or other initiatives. a large number of countries have already taken measures that contribute to combating unfair practices. however, the so-called 'fear factor' still exists, which prevents many traders from taking legal action for fear of damaging their trading relationships with partners.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i support the report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, as free and fair competition, balanced relations between all market participants and strengthened and effective enforcement of sectoral legislation at european level are key to the proper functioning of the food supply chain. unfair trading practices have a negative impact in particular on small and medium-sized enterprises, as they reduce their ability to invest in innovation and to seek ways to expand their business. following the recent commission assessment report, a large number of countries have recognised the damage caused by unfair trading practices and have taken regulatory measures to address it. but there is still room for improvement. the report makes clear recommendations to member states to improve national legislation so that laws can be applied in practice in an adequate and effective manner. taking into account national specificities and characteristics, i welcome the measures taken by the commission to combat unfair trading practices. these measures are aimed at ensuring a more balanced market and overcoming the current fragmentation within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, as i believe it is important to ensure that european competition law takes account of the specificities of agriculture, ensures the well-being of producers and consumers, creates the conditions for a more efficient market that allows consumers to benefit from a wide choice of quality products at competitive prices, while ensuring that primary producers are incentivised to invest and innovate without being displaced by unfair trading practices. a solution must be found to stop the abuses of dominant traders, even if it does not always meet the legal definition of abuses, namely unilateral change of backdated contracts, flat-rate charges imposed by suppliers of the 'pay to stay' type, late payments of more than 60 days, arbitrary discounts that the big chains charge themselves in case of early or timely payment, forcing suppliers to use explicitly named third-party companies to produce packaging, labels, etc. independent national regulatory authorities in the food sector should provide effective mechanisms to combat such unfair trading practices.
in writing. – unfair trade practices are practices that grossly deviate from good commercial conduct. utps in the food supply chain is a major problem, particularly for farmers, producers and smes. i firmly believe in the need for free and fair competition and, therefore, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain to overcome the existing imbalances and inequalities in the relationship between producer-supplier-large trading chains, where farmers are put at a disadvantage compared to the much stronger trading operators. the resolution is in line with the agri committee's efforts to protect the position of farmers who are most vulnerable when negotiating trade terms with the rest of the food supply chain. not only can they not expect to earn a fair return, but they are forced to sell below cost and, in order not to lose their customers, very often do not file complaints. it is clear that the existing competition and fair trade legislation is not sufficient to tackle the vicious practices in food supply chains. i therefore welcome the proposal to establish a framework for pan-european legislation to tackle unfair trading practices. such legislation is becoming increasingly necessary in the context of the deepening crisis in various sectors of agriculture - milk and milk products, pigmeat, fruit and vegetables. the common agricultural policy supports the creation of producer organisations which can contribute to strengthening the position of farmers through the possibility of concluding collective supply contracts.
i did not support this report because i believe that the legal vacuum we are in, pending a legislative proposal from the european commission on genetically modified organisms and an improved regulation on their placing and production in the european union, creates preconditions for ambiguity and sending wrong signals to citizens. i think that this report unfortunately does that. i also disagree with the call for the commission to use its new scientific opinion mechanism to place greater emphasis on risk-based risks and benefits in relation to the adoption or non-adoption of new technologies, products and practices. agriculture is the sector that provides all of us with food. innovation in this field must be carried out in the spirit of measures which protect and improve human, animal and plant health and the environment. the risk-based approach model hinted at in this report is not applicable to the proven european legislative framework and i believe this is the union's strong advantage in maintaining a sustainable feed production model and maintaining standards that are beneficial for citizens and the environment.
in writing. the world population is constantly increasing. in contrast, less and less land is used for agriculture, and at the same time there is a trend towards an ageing population and fewer people working the land. that is why we need to make it easier for innovation in this sector to reach farmers, no matter how big or small they are. and conversely, farmers need to have quick and secure access to research centres. at the same time, we have to be very careful with so-called gmo foods, because yes, they provide a quick solution to the problem, but that solution comes at a cost to human health. i supported this report and hope that by doing so i can help to develop agriculture in europe.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu. it is extremely important not only to meet the growing demand but also to control the many negative factors that affect the agricultural sector. environmental change, crop yield losses, soil quality and yields are among the main challenges that could be addressed by integrating technologies. they need to be applied to every type of agriculture to make it more productive and sustainable. in the meantime, a key priority should be to continue the practice of precision farming, which demonstrates how technological intervention reduces resources used and increases yields. long-term planning and financing of this sector is essential to achieve lasting improvements in the sustainability of agriculture, reductions in production costs and improvements in competitiveness.
in writing. – the european union is becoming a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability. in order for the eu to meet the rising food demand various initiatives would have to be accomplished by 2050. healthy food and optimal nutrition in the production still remain among the biggest challenges for the eu as well as for the rest of the world. actions need to be undertaken within a short period to ensure that needs of land availability, water shortage and the increasing energy demand will be met by 2050. in my work and activities as a member of the european parliament, among other initiatives, i fully support that technological solutions and innovation, which are our best chance to meet the upcoming demands.
i supported this report because i believe that sustainable use of available resources in agriculture is the key to moving in the right direction. i would like to highlight the role of marine and ocean natural resources, such as sapropyl, which have a huge potential to improve soil health and composition and hence agriculture. the black sea basin is rich in this sediment, which can be used to create biological soil improvers and fertilizers. they, in turn, create the conditions for the expansion of certain agricultural sectors, such as organic farming, and have a highly beneficial role in maintaining soil health and quality. i am calling on the bulgarian administration to establish a public-private partnership to support the extraction of this sediment from bulgaria's black sea economic zone. the sapropel is a response to the growing need for innovative soil improvers and its extraction is an investment in better agriculture, in the development of industry and in the involvement of scientific institutions in real economic processes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on promoting innovation and economic development in the future management of european farms. the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) estimates that the expected increase in the world's population to 9.1 billion by 2050 will require a 60% increase in food production by that date and a 24% increase in crop yields in developed countries. that means we need to make farms more modern and innovative so that we can increase production, but also make it more environmentally friendly. the report also stresses that farmers should be given more freedom in the choice of innovation and in its implementation. i think that's right, because the manufacturer is the best person to judge the benefits of using a technology.
in writing. – it is of paramount importance to sustain agricultural production in order to improve the economic prospects of producers. i am convinced that economic development and sustainable production go hand in hand. the new innovations and research play an essential role in fulfilling both the objectives. hence, i vote in favour of the better economic development of disadvantaged regions such as mountainous and outermost regions as well as small and medium-sized farms, as this is crucial for the better implementation of a stable, sustainable future.
madam president, many of us in this house have long called for the genuine integration of migration into the union's external policies and for genuine migration diplomacy. it is now a matter of conceptual design. the challenge now is to make this fundamental change in our approach a reality. i would like to emphasize three elements in this connection. first, there is a need for a thorough reflection on the financing. on the one hand, the good practices already in place in the selected and so-called priority countries deserve to be better valued; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we need to reduce the number of priorities to have a greater impact. secondly, yes, africa is a key continent. in the area of migration management, support for border controls between african countries and for intra-african migration management should be strengthened. as regards the causes of migration, it is imperative to achieve results in development cooperation. this requires a real effort and we are doing it: finding an approach and incentives that work and not neglecting other tools, economic and commercial, as levers of reforms related to the rule of law and human rights. a general remark: beware of the message that will be sent to all the other countries that are not priorities at the moment. and a particular question: what role for african regional organizations? finally, two questions on the implementation of the action plan adopted in valletta: what measures have been proposed to exploit the human and financial potential of the african diaspora in europe? what about cooperation between the countries of sub-saharan africa, the countries of the southern mediterranean and the european countries?
the unprecedented migration crisis of the past few years has clearly shown that no country can cope alone and therefore both coordinated pan-european action and close cooperation with third countries are needed. so i think that the european union needs to take three concrete measures to reduce the migratory pressure on europe. first, we have to distinguish between economic migrants and refugees. those seeking a better life can take advantage of legal ways of entering the european territory, but no legislation allows them to enter the european union illegally by trying to cross borders unregulated. we must dispel the hope that europe will give them the same support as it has given refugees fleeing war. the european union must also step up the return of illegal immigrants to their countries of origin. i therefore welcome the enhanced role of the european border and coast guard in this regard. but for the new service to work effectively, the european union needs to sign readmission agreements with countries of origin quickly. finally, i believe that the possibility of creating hotspots outside europe should be reconsidered. i believe that this measure will reduce the migratory pressure towards europe, because only those who are entitled to international protection will be able to reach the member states following the approval of their application under european law. addressing the migration crisis requires new measures and approaches by the european union, and enhancing international cooperation is an important component of the union's action package in this regard.
the european commission's proposals and policies in relation to the illegal migrant crisis can be described as a stunning failure. the failure was the thesis that all illegal immigrants can be invited and accepted on the european continent because they claimed to be refugees, when in fact a large number of them are illegal immigrants. the failure was the idea that you could allocate these people, first temporarily, then permanently, because you didn't allocate anyone with those allocations. the deal with the dictator erdogan, besides being a failure, was also a grave hypocrisy, because you are making a deal with a dictator in the name of human rights, who daily violates human rights and who daily crushes the principles of liberal democracy. the promise to pay billions of euros from the pocket of the european taxpayer as a ransom for this man has also failed. this proposal will fail, and now i have another proposal for colleagues who defend the thesis that they can accept all illegal immigrants. give an example, take a family home and show us how it's done.
in writing. the european commission has identified migration pressure as the 'new normal' and presented a new partnership plan with third countries. i welcome the efforts to build a long-term strategy to deal with the problem, because the evidence is clear that there is no prospect of the migratory pressure on europe stopping or easing in the coming years. this plan recognises that this will be the main problem of the eu and the next generation of european citizens. this is the problem, and perhaps the only one, that we cannot solve by achieving a better standard of living and economic growth in europe. the better the conditions here, the more people will want to come to us. more than half of the immigrants in europe do not come from conflict zones. in the years to come, the eu will be a haven for climate refugees, who we don't talk about much yet. we must therefore promote better living conditions in african countries and support their economic and social development. this investment is necessary to safeguard our european standards, rights and freedoms. i welcome the package of specific agreements, arrangements and measures and hope that the launch of this long-term strategy will be welcomed and supported by all european governments.
in writing. mr president, the humanism on which europe is built requires us to lend a hand to those fleeing the horrors of war. but granting asylum is not enough. i welcome the commission's intention to step up its efforts in the field of integration. i hope that this important aspect of migration policy will be given the attention and adequate funding it deserves. because education in understanding cultural differences, in understanding but above all respect for our values, and providing equal opportunities and opportunities are the long-term measures that can guarantee tolerance, justice and our peaceful coexistence. only successful integration will guarantee the freedom to be different in the name of our multicultural identity, as a counterweight to hate speech, social isolation and radicalisation.
mr president, skills, the necessary skills for success are at the heart of our competitive, innovative, economically progressing union, so i very much look forward to the concrete proposal. in europe currently almost 40% of the population holds a university degree, though at the same time one in four employers struggle to find people with the right skills. to address this, i believe we need a more uniform approach and a very convinced political leadership in europe. we need to foster complex problems solving e-skills, entrepreneurial management skills – 90% of future jobs will require ict skills yet at the same time only one third of europeans have used the internet; not to mention that we are not entirely aware what the jobs of the future will look like and be. in order to ensure the added value we must step up practical skills recognition such as through the entrepreneurial skill pass and other existing programmes, as well as the recognition of competences acquired online. skills are not only to be fostered but also, most importantly, made portable, applicable and fit to the needs of employers and businesses. we have a single market for our goods and services and now it is time to match that with a single market for our human capital.
in writing. – i welcome the decision adopted by the commission on a new skills agenda for europe. we need clear action plans on better encouraging interaction between the education institutions and social partners. their involvement in designing curricula and work-based learning is essential in order to ensure that all citizens acquire general knowledge and overcome the lack of relevant skills for available jobs so we can reach a better functioning labour market. courses for reskilling and upskilling adults are also needed. we should urgently incorporate new technologies in the learning process and further foster partnerships to fill high-tech skills gaps and promote digital entrepreneurship in order to align the european economy to the new digital reality. we should prepare and encourage individuals to start their own business and run it successfully. in this regard, special attention should be paid to the development of entrepreneurship and networking skills, language competences and other transversal skills and competences. the lack of comparability of qualifications awarded in the eu with third country qualifications is an obstacle to attracting talent to europe and in particular to integrating the refugees and asylum seekers the eu hosts. recognition of degrees and qualifications is essential for social integration and a functioning labour market.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the european commission estimates that some 70 million europeans do not have sufficient literacy and numeracy skills, and almost half (45%) of the eu population does not have sufficient digital skills. this is more than a state of emergency for the beginning of the 21st century. despite the huge unemployment in europe, more than 40% of employers say they cannot find workers with the necessary knowledge and skills to grow their business. let us add that a huge number of young people with a university education cannot find a job or work in places that are far from their education. so, something is wrong with the education system and it needs to be changed immediately and seriously. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal for a new skills agenda for europe. a comprehensive approach and the use of all effective tools are needed to address the skills gaps in the labour market that are currently known to exist. young people should be the focus of the programme for understandable reasons, but this alone will not solve the problem of the mismatch between the requirements and the real skills of the workers who are now in the army of the unemployed. let us invest in all of europe's human resources, in training the skills needed today and tomorrow.
on behalf of the group the alde. despite its complex geographical structure, the country has made significant progress in recent years and it is no coincidence that in december 2014, the european union granted the philippines the status of a country under the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp+). this makes it the first country in the association of southeast asian nations to benefit from such trade preferences, being able to export 66% of all its products to the european union duty-free. in terms of human rights, the philippines is a model for other countries in the region and has ratified eight of the nine major conventions in this area. the european union is therefore an important foreign investor and trade partner for the philippines, and we welcome the signed framework agreement on partnership and cooperation. we should continue to provide financial support to the philippines for poverty alleviation, disaster relief and recovery assistance, as well as for combating terrorism, human trafficking and tackling climate change. china's growing assertiveness and territorial claims in the south china sea should be of particular concern. in this regard, i urge all parties in the disputed area to refrain from unilateral and provocative actions and to resolve disputes peacefully on the basis of the jurisdiction of the un convention on the law of the sea and the court of arbitration. in conclusion, i would like to welcome the agreement of december 2015 to open free trade negotiations with the philippines and i am convinced that it will open new horizons for the future development of trade and investment between the european union and the association of southeast asian nations.
european space policy directly affects the people of europe. it is a high-tech sector that creates many jobs, a billion-dollar annual turnover and a multitude of business opportunities for applications in everyday life, such as telecommunications, navigation, media, transport, meteorology and more. we need to identify how the uptake of space data can support our union's economic growth, focusing on the benefits of space linked to the digital single market and capital markets, interaction with the european structural and investment funds. on the other hand, european space policy must be made an integral part of our security policy. the exchange of information and space data is part of the response to global security challenges, including the fight against terrorism. a common space policy will help to achieve european leadership by developing independent technologies and missions, services and applications in other fields beyond the economic and security spheres. it is a little known fact that bulgaria, for example, has a well-deserved place among the countries with a space programme. it is the third country after the united states and russia to produce ready meals for space crews, has its own astronaut, and is the eighteenth country with its own satellite. in this regard, the efforts of each member state, irrespective of its size, to ensure the enhancement of geopolitical stability through international cooperation, awareness and transparency, and to increase the contribution of space to european defence and security policy, are important.
i would like to remind colleagues at the outset that the efsi is a new instrument - new in design, new in objectives and new in opportunities, both for the member states and for the regions. the efsi is an instrument with a triple structure. it includes both the dedicated advice hub and the funding opportunities, the potential of the european investment bank's expertise and the potential of the european commission in co-managing the fund. finally, the efsi started its work with specific guidelines for good coordination with the existing european funds, including the cohesion funds. this is one of the potential areas for the future development of the efsi. good coordination between the different financial instruments of the european union makes for better investment. we cannot look for the opposition of individual instruments, we can use the simplification, flexibility and potential of different instruments to achieve the goals we are striving for i.e. growth and employment. the efsi should also be used to support the development of the european investment fund (eif) and the european investment fund (eif) in the context of the european investment fund (eif) and the european investment fund (eif) in the context of the european investment fund (eif) and the european investment fund (eif) in the context of the european investment fund (eif) and the european investment fund (eif) in the context of the european investment fund (eif). the advice hub is working, but advice and technical assistance at national and regional level and the exchange of good practices are needed. i wish you success in extending the fund's work.
madam president, 18 months after the introduction of the investment plan, it is time to make the first mid-term overall assessment of the results in order to be sure that it supports the priorities declared by the commission and adds value to the european economy. the last figures revealed that we have already substantial investment from efsi that should trigger total investment of eur 100 billion. these resources are spread throughout the vast majority of the eu member states and are concentrated in the areas of energy, research and development, transport, the digital single market and other sectors vital for the european economy. in the case of bulgaria, several banks have already signed agreements and are active in the area of supporting small and medium enterprises. equally important are the other two strands of the investment plan: the transparency of investment opportunities and strengthening the advisory services, as well as improving the investment environment. bearing in mind that the first results will support the implementation of the plan, in the case of extending the activities of the plan, we call for more effective project distribution to include all the underdeveloped regions of the union.
madam president, i just wonder how often it happens that we vote for something here in plenary last june and we actually bear very concrete results a year later. citizens, as well as businesses, expect swift decisions and this is one. at the same time, the plan is not a panacea for all our economic hurdles but it paves and facilitates the way ahead for the european economy, with more competition-based investment in projects with added value and a much easier access to finance for business. thanks to our suggestions, the sme window was enlarged and, in this way, has reached 185 agreements with commercial banks that will contribute towards more than 140 000 smes across europe. this contribution will go towards the innovative ideas of younger professionals, of those digital entrepreneurs in businesses that want to contribute to a more prosperous europe because it is precisely these businesses that say their number one problem in bringing their ideas to life is lack of financing and this is what the plan addresses. i would like to encourage the commission to act much more quickly and to bring the advisory services to national and regional level. this will have a twofold effect: they will be more involved and develop better expertise. second, this will allow more coherent technical advice when it comes to combining efsi and esi funds because the member states already have a solid capacity on that.
madam president, facts and figures do not need explanation: they are self-explanatory. facts and figures are showing that juncker’s plan is performing better than a lot of people here believed it would. if i had to use aviation terms i would have to say that the juncker plan and efsi have had a very short and bumpy runway but still flies and while it has a very strong tailwind from pessimism and political hate at the moment it is working perfectly. and exactly now, when we have reached our cruising altitude, along with planning to go further and watch further, we have to see what the results are and analyse them. here, i have three main improvements that i believe have to be made: investment platforms at a regional level to help meet potential investors and public entities; create more public and private partnerships, and more and strong technical assistance on the ground to help potential beneficiaries; and last but not least, more synergies between efsi and esif.
in writing. the economic crisis has led to a sharp drop in investment and has seriously shaken european citizens' confidence in the ability of the union's institutions to solve europe's economic problems. when we adopted the juncker plan last year, we sent a signal to citizens and businesses that we would work to break the vicious circle of low consumption, low investment and consequently low growth. a year later, we can say that the results are encouraging. the european fund for strategic investments is already operating in 26 member states and is expected to attract €100 billion worth of investment, although most projects are still in the early stages of implementation. it is important to ensure that all approved projects meet the complementarity criterion in order to avoid crowding out private investment. in bulgaria, efsi support is already facilitating access to finance for smes through the so-called sme window. however, projects in the infrastructure and innovation investment window remain mainly concentrated in larger member states or those with developed financial markets, which shows the need for more efficient allocation in order not to undermine the objectives of cohesion policy. at a time of challenges to eu unity, it is important not to create dividing lines between member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu-palau agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. under the agreement signed last december, a new visa-free regime applies to european citizens and reciprocally to palauan citizens when they travel to europe for 90 days. it is important to note that this visa regime does not apply to citizens travelling for the purpose of work or other gainful activity. i believe that the benefits of this agreement will be beneficial to the tourism sector and will promote bilateral business relations.
in writing. – the republic of palau is a constructive partner of the eu in the context of the cotonou agreement. in this regard, the agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas represents a culmination of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau. it is also a clear signal that the eu is seeking to facilitate political dialogue with palau in terms of protecting the environment in relation to climate change, defending human rights, and gender equality. last but not least, i supported eu-palau agreement on the short-stay visa waiver because the country does not present any threat to the eu in terms of irregular migration and security issues.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu-tonga agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. under the agreement signed last december, a new visa-free regime applies to european citizens and reciprocally to palauan citizens when they travel to europe for 90 days. it is important to note that this visa regime does not apply to citizens travelling for the purpose of work or other gainful activity. i believe that the benefits of this agreement will be beneficial to the tourism sector and will promote bilateral business relations.
in writing. – the kingdom of tonga is an important partner for the eu in the african caribbean pacific region. in this context, the agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas represents a further step towards a deepening of relations between the eu and the kingdom of tonga. visa liberalisation could send out a positive message of support for the country and the efforts it is making in terms of protecting its vulnerable environment and defending human rights and gender equality. last but not least, we should support the eu-tonga agreement on the short-stay visa waiver because the country does not pose a threat to the union in terms of irregular migration and security.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu-colombia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver. under the agreement signed last december, a new visa-free regime applies to european citizens and reciprocally to palauan citizens when they travel to europe for 90 days. it is important to note that this visa regime does not apply to citizens travelling for the purpose of work or other gainful activity. i believe that the benefits of this agreement will be beneficial to the tourism sector and will promote bilateral business relations.
in writing. ‒ as the shadow rapporteur on the report on the eu-colombia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, i support the report as i believe that the abolition of visa requirements for short-stay visits will stimulate cross-border dialogue between member states and colombia. the safeguard clauses in the agreement for its suspension or termination in the event of a security or migration risk, as well as the cooperation agreement concluded between colombia and europol, guarantee that the agreement will be for the sole benefit of the eu, colombia and their citizens.
in writing. – i supported the resolution because colombia is an important political and economic partner for the eu in latin america. the agreement on the waiver of short stay visas is an important step in deepening eu’s relations with colombia which are built on political dialogue, trade and development cooperation and cover a wide range of bilateral, regional and multilateral issues. moreover, the visa waiver will simplify conditions for travel by businesspeople, strengthen economic links among businesses and facilitate investments. visa liberalisation is likely to further increase tourist flows between the eu and colombia. however, there are concerns that with visa liberalisation the level of irregular migration, human and drug trafficking will increase. therefore, we should further enhance and strengthen cooperation between the eu and colombia in the fight against irregular migration and organised crime.
in writing. – free movement within the european community’s is one of the most important freedoms of the european union. this is why i vote in favour of the waiver of short-stay visas, as for the citizens of the european union and colombian people. i believe that the agreement will bring nations closer together and this is crucial part to the development of people’s relations. businesses will also benefit greatly from this agreement and more specifically the tourism, a key part of every counties economy.
in writing. i supported this dossier because i am a strong believer in stimulating innovation and economic growth. this is a remarkable deal, bringing down the basic tariffs to the level of the wto. if the timelines and agreed terms of the deal are met, we should soon witness a significant economic boost. of course, we must not forget to be careful, especially when it comes to large international deals, and therefore each member state must continue to monitor this deal closely.
in writing. ‒ for one reason or another, we are living in time of enormous technological progress. nowadays it industry is booming and therefore it is not surprising that the free market is demanding more it goods such as computers, telephones, machinery and etc. in this regard, it is important to note that the duty free information technology agreement (ita) has played an important role in the enormous development and expansion of trade that the it sector has experienced over the last 20 years, since the application of the agreement in 1997. however, because of continuing technological progress and emergence of new it products there is a real need of expansion of ita. in may 2012, six countries launched negotiations to expand the product coverage of the agreement (eu, us, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica). on 24 july 2015, an agreement was reached on an additional list of 201 it products. annual trade in these 201 products is valued at over usd 1.3 trillion per year, and accounts for approximately 10% of total global trade today. the eu exports eur 189 billion in products covered by the ita expansion therefore we should support it.
in writing. – as the declaration of nairobi ministerial declaration is prepared to be implemented and establish the first cuts in tariffs, the expansion of trade in information technology products (ita) will result in allowing the industry to reduce the cost of importing the hardware necessary to develop the it sector. it will also help create higher quality jobs for young it experts and will impact on other industries, making them more efficient as a whole. as a firm supporter of the it sector in europe and in my home country bulgaria, i vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft council decision to subject the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2- ((1-pyrrolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pyrrolidinovalerophenone, α-pvp) to control measures. this substance has been detected in 8 member states, causing 115 deaths and 191 serious poisonings.
in writing. i voted for this file. it rightly addresses some of the main problems when it comes to spills of dangerous and harmful substances carried by sea. i believe that there is still much work to be done, particularly when it comes to clarifying the status and opportunities for countries that have significantly fewer resources and therefore more hesitation when it comes to signing and ratifying new agreements and protocols. we need, as a further step, to focus on improving assistance to these member states so that countries can balance the standards of security and safety measures without risking sanctions or over-regulation. however, i support this report because i think it is a good initiative. international cooperation is important in this area as the consequences of such a spill can be very long-lasting and affect multiple member states at the same time and because clarity of rules and procedures is needed.
in writing. i voted for this file. it rightly addresses some of the main problems when it comes to spills of dangerous and harmful substances carried by sea. i believe that there is still much work to be done, particularly when it comes to clarifying the status and opportunities for countries that have significantly fewer resources and therefore more hesitation when it comes to signing and ratifying new agreements and protocols. we need, as a further step, to focus on improving assistance to these member states so that countries can balance the standards of security and safety measures without risking sanctions or over-regulation. however, i support this report because i think it is a good initiative. international cooperation is important in this area as the consequences of such a spill can be very long-lasting and affect multiple member states at the same time and because clarity of rules and procedures is needed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, which is only technical and takes into account croatia's accession to the eu. i further believe that this eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation is an important step and consolidates the long-standing relationship. the agreement must also be ratified by all eu member states in order to enter into force and achieve the desired result.
in writing. ‒ the eu-philippines relationship is long-standing and has been deepening in recent years. i welcome this framework partnership and cooperation agreement and believe that it will strengthen ties and that, among other things, it concerns the establishment of a human rights dialogue in the form of a human rights working group. i share the concerns about the human rights situation there, although the situation has improved somewhat in recent years, as well as the climate of impunity in the country, which ranks very high on the global impunity index.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the accompanying resolution to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of the philippines, of the other part. the eu should continue to provide support and capacity building in support of the philippines in promoting peace, reconciliation, security and judicial reform and assist the country in disaster preparedness and post-disaster recovery. the resolution congratulated the philippines on joining the international coalition against terrorism since 2001 and expressed concern about the possible influence of isil on affiliated groups in south-east asia. it's important that we support any country that wants to fight their terrorist organizations, because as we see these days, they're spreading globally, and fighting them within our borders is not enough. the resolution also encourages the philippines to continue to improve the investment climate and welcomes the 2015 agreement to open negotiations on an eu-philippines free trade agreement.
tunisia is not only the birthplace of the 'arab spring', but it is also the only arab country where democracy has been successfully consolidated. today, tunisia is a democratic state whose constitution guarantees the rule of law and protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of its citizens. a key feature of a successful democracy is the presence of a well-developed and stable civil society. the eu has a major role to play in the establishment of democracy and stability in tunisia. through the european neighbourhood policy, the country is deepening its political ties with the european union and receiving financial assistance. the road to the establishment of the privileged partnership with the european union has been opened thanks to the remarkable efforts of the tunisian people. unfortunately, the instability in the region and the threat of terrorist attacks are having a negative impact on tourism and tunisia's fragile economy. at this difficult time for the country, i believe that the european union must be united. that is why i supported the proposed macro-financial assistance for tunisia. the additional aid of eur 500 million will improve the country's budget balance and create a better business climate, putting the country on the path to growth.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on providing macro-financial assistance to tunisia in the form of a medium-term loan of up to eur 500 million for the period 2016-2017 to cover the country's external financing needs. the objective of the loan is to bring about economic and political stabilisation in tunisia and to support the development of the country and the implementation of reforms aimed at improving the budgetary situation, ensuring stability for the balance of payments and creating a more favourable investment environment. in my view, the financial support for the country is directly linked to the migration policy and the improvement of tunisia's economic situation could lead to a reduction in the flow of people, citizens of that country, arriving in the eu.
in writing. ‒ at the plenary session on 8 june 2016, we adopted by a large majority the ep's position on providing additional macro-financial assistance to tunisia. in 2015, tunisia's economy suffered a downturn following several terrorist attacks that severely affected tourism and transport in the country and led to a decline in foreign investment. the country needs international financial assistance to stabilize. the new amount to be allocated to tunisia amounts to eur 500 million and is divided into three tranches over the next two years. this financial assistance will be subject to the fulfilment of a number of economic policy conditions that are consistent with the newly prepared imf financial programme for the country. the commission will also agree with the tunisian authorities on specific structural reforms in the administration. the union's macro-financial assistance shall be implemented in accordance with the union's macro-financial assistance programmes, including the union's macro-financial assistance to tunisia. i voted in favour because i believe that with external assistance tunisia can tackle these problems and be a responsible partner of the eu.
in writing. – tunisia has been suffering severe economic difficulties from the beginning of 2011 when its political and economic revolution began. in order to overcome its problems further assistance is necessary. the terrorist attacks in 2015 worsened the situation affecting tourism and transport which are an essential part of every country’s economy. i take the chance to vote on favour of the mfa to the tunisian republic so that the necessary reforms are made, in order for them to achieve a sustainable balance and hopefully the ultimate goal of economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a council directive laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market, as following the changes made by parliament, the proposal will be detrimental to business and trade.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's position on the proposed anti-tax evasion package, as i believe that fair and efficient corporate taxation is a key prerequisite for a reliable single market. aggressive tax planning by multinational enterprises can lead to a significant loss of revenue for countries, and this reduces their ability to invest in measures to boost employment, fight poverty, develop effective health and education systems. on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that national governments are able to exercise their tax sovereignty effectively. a coordinated and harmonised approach is needed with regard to the implementation of tax systems whose main objective is to ensure that taxes are paid on fair terms, and the establishment of mechanisms to ensure that businesses pay their taxes where value is created and where they realise their profits, as multinational enterprises too often organise the transfer of their profits to tax havens without having paid any tax.
in writing. ‒ there is no secret that within the eu almost eur 1 trillion are being lost due to tax avoidance and tax evasion. the problem knows no borders and affects every european citizen therefore we should join efforts in laying down rules against tax avoidance/evasion practices that directly affect the functioning of the internal market. in light of this, we should work on a harmonisation of european taxation in order ensure proper functioning of the single market and the success of the capital market union. i supported the resolution because to achieve this, however, we should convince member states to come to an agreement on tax matters. last but not least, we should find a way that enterprises pay their taxes in the member state where they make their profit.
in writing. – combating fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance are overriding political priorities, as aggressive tax planning practices are unacceptable from the point of view of the integrity of the internal market and social justice. as the report highlights, a political priority of international taxation highlights the need for ensuring that taxes are payable in the countries where the actual economic activity or value creation has taken place. i support the report and the fight against tax avoidance.
in writing. i did not support the resolution on the follow-up to the resolution on the us senate report on the use of torture by the cia. i and my political group are strongly against the use of torture and strongly support the observance of the principles of international law and the charter of human rights. i support independent investigations into the matter, but i believe that the eu treaties do not give the european parliament such powers.
in writing. i decided to abstain on this record. i think it's too early to draw any conclusions. space holds enormous potential and capabilities in terms of european security and defence. however, there are still many challenges in terms of economic, scientific and regional analysis and evaluation. one of the main priorities is to involve all actors in this process, especially the regions, in order to develop the most effective and analytical future policies.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that security environment is ever changing. however, in recent years the security environment, both within and outside the union, has become more dangerous and challenging due to the rise of international terrorism, aggression by foreign states and development of technologies. in this context, the weaponisation of space in terms of the development of anti-satellite (asat) technologies and orbital weapons capabilities by a number of actors stress the need of development of space capabilities for european security and defence. i voted in favour because in order to be competitive in space and protect its vital satellite infrastructure, the eu should enhance cooperation among its institutions such as european defence agency, european space agency and eu satellite centre. deepen cooperation among institutions will ensure more competitive, transparent and consolidated european space industry as well as improved cyber-security and safety of eu citizens. space capabilities are extremely vital in time of cyber warfare and digitalisation that is why the union cannot allow itself to not develop and expand them.
in writing. ‒ i support the initiative for a single european strategy to coordinate the different areas of the european union's space activities. it is vital for europe to strengthen its industry and to ensure independent access to space. we should not forget that satellite technologies can be very useful in the security sector, for example, in border control, monitoring of refugee waves, as well as for the implementation of air and sea traffic control. high-resolution earth observation data and positioning systems are a means of disaster and crisis management, including in the context of energy security and global food security. while the era of the space race was initiated by the governments of the most powerful nations, today we are seeing the use of space capacity for commercial purposes becoming increasingly important for all. the sector contributes 320 000 jobs and €52 billion in profits to the economies of the member states. these are among the main prerequisites for the creation of a renewed governance framework at european level. that is why i have today supported the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the development of space capabilities for european security and defence.
in writing. – space capabilities play an important role to the european security and defence. the innovations in today’s security are a key point for our effective fight against terrorism. the development of the galileo and copernicus programme, which will provide accurate positioning, is an important contribution to the necessary observations of borders, aerial transport, migration flow and so. this knowledge is crucial to eu security as a whole. an even broader cooperation is necessary between the members states so that we enhance our space capabilities for even better security. i support the cooperation of the eu with other partners and the us as well in order to share and build on our capabilities.
in writing. the space market has huge commercial potential. i voted in favour of this dossier because i am convinced that this sector has an important future position for the european union. i support the initiative to remove certain market and technical barriers that hinder innovation. however, i urge us to remember to be careful when it comes to the technical aspects of data access, especially in view of the developments in the digital single market. moreover, when it comes to sensitive technology issues of interest to many, we cannot and should not risk lowering standards.
in writing. ‒ the global security environment is becoming increasingly dangerous and challenging due to terrorism and armed conflict, and this requires an adequate response by strengthening the eu's common security and defence policy. for example, the use of satellite capabilities for the purpose of better border protection through early identification of immigration flows is one visible and expected solution. the eu has developed its space policy over the past decades, but efforts in this direction need to be multiplied. today, satellite technology is spreading at an explosive rate and society is increasingly dependent on it for both military and civilian needs. we must not hesitate to double-use the capabilities of galileo and copernicus, and the development of the next generation of technologies must provide the capability for precise earth observation and better management and response to natural disasters, earthquakes, fires and floods, global warming, humanitarian action and military applications. at the same time, competition and military objectives in space technology require a very high level of cybersecurity of applications, for which the necessary research and development resources should be encouraged. the competitiveness of the european economy is becoming increasingly dependent on satellite communication systems, so space technologies should develop at a faster pace.
in writing. ‒ the current political, economic and social situation in venezuela is very complicated and the country is facing a serious humanitarian crisis, caused by shortages of food and medicine. the principles of rule of law and separation of powers are not fully respected in venezuela. president maduro rules the country in authoritarian and repressive way by issuing emergency decrees, removing the national assembly’s powers to scrutinise policy, refusing to recognise its power by the constitution. in the five months during which the new national assembly has been legislatively active, with the democratic opposition in the majority, the supreme court has handed down 13 politically motivated judgments in favour of the executive, all of which imperil the balance of power required in a state governed by the rule of law. in addition to this, maduro’s government is particularly tough on freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, civil society and etc. nowadays in venezuela there are 2000 prisoners of conscience. therefore, i voted for the resolution because venezuelan authorities should immediately release all political prisoners, to respect and guarantee the constitutional rights and freedoms of venezuelan people. the president’s government should adopt a constructive attitude in order to overcome venezuela’s current critical situation through a constitutional, peaceful and democratic dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i decided to stick to my political group's position and voted against the resolution on endocrine disruptors. the ecj is fully committed to protecting human health and the environment and to ensuring a high level of protection for both. however, the cor does not support this resolution, as the commission has already accepted the judgment of the general court that the commission breached its obligations by not adopting a delegated act before the deadline and publicly committed itself to accelerating the adoption of the criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors, which are expected to be published in june. although the commission did not meet the deadline for adopting these criteria, according to the eu legal service, once they are published in june, there will be no grounds for further legal action against the commission. for that reason, i think the resolution is pointless.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on endocrine disruptors. i believe it is extremely important and necessary for the european commission to publish the scientific criteria necessary to identify and reduce exposure to substances that lead to hormonal disorders, as they lead to serious adverse outcomes. even the un environment programme/who report has classified endocrine disruptors as a global threat. of concern is the growing prevalence of endocrine disorders in humans. there is new evidence that edcs can have a serious negative impact on reproductive health (cancer, infertility) as well as on thyroid function, brain function, obesity and metabolism, and on insulin and glucose homeostasis. i welcome the decision of the european commission to publish the criteria by the end of june 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the article 106 objection concerning the authorisation of genetically modified maize, as i am strongly in favour of a ban on the use of gmos in any form. the health of citizens must come first, so we must not allow gm foods to be sold on the european market. i have always been in favour of a total ban on gmos on the european market. i am convinced that this is the only policy we can pursue on this issue.
in writing. ‒ at today's plenary i did not follow the epp line and voted for the proposed objections to the authorisation of the placing on the market of genetically modified maize and carnations. i'm guided by our national interest in developing organic farming. bulgaria has a consistent conservative and restrictive national policy on genetically modified organisms. there are many arguments for and against gmos, and i won't repeat them here. however, i cannot help but note the concerns of a large number of experts about glyphosate as possibly carcinogenic to humans.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the article 106 objection concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified carnation, as i am strongly opposed to the use of genetically modified products. i have always been in favour of a total ban on gmos on the european market. i am convinced that this is the only policy we can pursue on this issue.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs delvaux, because the fact that we have a compromise agreement with the council today is thanks to her efforts in the long and difficult negotiations with the member states. i can assure you that the member states were not prepared to give up their position. today's text is therefore a great success for us as the european parliament, but above all it is a great success for our citizens, because we will facilitate their free movement by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. this regulation concerns the abolition of administrative formalities such as legalisation and apostille for documents relating to civil status or to the absence of a criminal record issued by another member state. these simplifications for citizens are offset by the possibility for the administration receiving the document to verify the authenticity of the document directly and electronically. it will also reduce the risk of fraud. the creation of multilingual standard certificates for most of the relevant official documents saves citizens the effort, time and resources of translating the document. it also makes it much easier for citizens to move around the european union. i hope that the next revision of the regulation will extend its scope to include more documents, with particular attention to business-related documents and to documents relating to the acquisition of qualifications, schooling and further education. i regret that the member states were not prepared to accept our position during the negotiations and that these documents were not included in the compromise text. in conclusion, i would like to add that i sincerely hope that in the future member states will have more trust in each other so that we can bring more documents within the scope of the regulation and thus all together improve and facilitate the lives of our citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. i would like to join in the thanks and congratulations to mrs delvaux for the long, complex and delicate negotiations in the political groups and for the satisfactory outcome on this important issue for european citizens. it not only simplifies formalities in relation to certain types of documents, in particular those certifying residence, nationality, absence of a criminal record and criminal record, but also removes heavy bureaucratic obstacles, disproportionate and in many cases unnecessary formalities. the removal of documents such as the apostille is good news because it makes it easier to issue these documents and to standardize them. i also strongly support the introduction of standard european multilingual forms, which will minimise the need for legalised translation, as well as the cost, red tape and inconvenience to member state citizens in their free movement and daily activities within the european union. the removal of these additional obstacles will facilitate the process and requirements for issuing certain official documents. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again on the efficiency of the negotiations and, above all, on the result achieved.
on behalf of the ecr group. i fully agree with the need for reform of the court of justice of the european communities. this is a very important issue and it was high time that we had a report on this. we have long seen the need for a comprehensive compromise by all political groups in all member states on this issue. however, we must not overlook the fact that this compromise will be achieved by increasing the number of judges, an extremely difficult decision that has been the fruit of very long talks. i would like to stress that this substantial change will lead to an increase in the structural costs of the sector by at least another 20 million, which will, of course, be paid for by the european taxpayer. moreover, there is insufficient compelling evidence to substantiate and justify this decision unconditionally. when it comes to this topic, we have to consider both the scope, and the cost, and the possible consequences of this decision.
the events of the last few months have clearly shown us that the timely sharing of information between member states' services and between them and europol is vital. there are many european databases sis, the europol database, the passenger information system, the introduction of a database is being discussed in connection with the intelligent borders package. however, the mere collection of information, however valuable it may be, cannot help us in the fight against terrorism and organised crime unless it is shared in a timely and comprehensive manner across all national security systems. i believe that in the face of a systemic threat it is extremely important that member states start to cooperate fully and introduce automated data exchange between their systems and europol, because only transnational sharing can stand up to modern cross-border criminal networks.
the current challenges to european security - migration, terrorism, organised crime and trafficking in human beings - are interconnected threats that require a comprehensive approach and a coordinated response at european and national level. the exchange of information within the european union is an important component of this new approach, and i believe that this requires technical interconnection of european information systems in the field of security and home affairs. in this context, i would like to welcome the european commission's proposal to explore the possibilities for improving and linking the border management systems used by the security services. i believe that improving systems has three main aspects. first, technical compatibility between the different systems must be ensured as soon as possible. this will allow, instead of collecting information on the same person several times and entering it into separate systems, for data to be collected once and be available according to the needs of the individual services in the different member states. i also call on the european commission to come forward swiftly with legislative proposals to create a legal basis for data exchange and interconnection. more importantly, i call on all members of the european parliament to put political differences behind them and support these proposals in the interests of the security of european citizens. finally, the need to protect personal data should not be overlooked, regardless of the type of information architecture of the systems.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i have listened very carefully, as i always do, to your interventions and taken note of your concerns. ms hohlmeier, ms stevens, i agree with you on europol. we had the chance, as you remember, to discuss this three weeks ago. as many of you stressed, ms metsola and others, and as i said in my opening remarks: respect for fundamental rights, and in particular, data protection, will be integral to our future information architecture. beyond this, i am pleased that we see eye-to-eye in terms of what the problem is. information sharing is key to fighting terrorists. our information cannot be locked up in silos. it must be interconnected in order to be useful. we all know more by sharing more. trust is the basis on which we will build our new approach. we are moving from rhetoric and political statements to concrete actions on improving our information management. our expert group on interoperability of systems will deliver tangible policy input 12 months from now. based on this input, we may need to modify our legal instruments, or even propose new ones. ms fajon, ms in’t veld, implementation of these existing instruments is our priority. our expert group, however, will identify possible gaps, and the contribution to it from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) is very important. our commitment to this priority is a given. your support and contribution will be key. i really, very much count on it.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me conclude by first of all stating that we must remain determined in our common fight against terrorism. therefore information exchange and the feeding of the databases have been a major priority for the presidency in the justice and home affairs field. as i mentioned in the first round, that is not so easy because you have to do it on the basis of trust, interoperability and also filling the databases in a way that is immediately concrete for the people who work in law enforcement and intelligence agencies, who are in border control, and who are related to crime and therefore often the relationships that we see between crime and terror. terrorism is not primarily defeated by bombs and bullets. we know that. it is also the effective and legitimate use of bytes and data that allows us to identify terrorist networks, to detect their plans and to uproot them at an early stage. so that information is vital to protect our societies and citizens. we have of course very often called for improving information sharing, feeding and using the databases in the way that i just mentioned. figures are available, for instance in the eu ctc’s latest report. we know now that unprecedented levels of information have been shared with the taskforce, fraternité, which was established at europol in december 2015. fortunately – and also importantly – we have made significant progress in recent years in terms of feeding and consulting databases, as is for example shown by the latest report from eu-lisa for 2015. however, i agree with you that we need to further increase every day our efforts for a better exchange of information and interoperability of databases. yes, to a certain extent that is technical work, but technical work that cannot function without political leadership and trust. that is the reality: the better feeding and use of databases is crucial, in particular sis, the database ‘focal point travellers’ at europol. this can be improved immediately without any legislative change. i am convinced that trust and recognition of the operational added value of sharing information between member states and with europol or eurojust are fundamental factors for success. that has to become in reality more and more constraining for the member states. we do this through the different parameters that have been mentioned. i will not go into the techniques of it, but obviously it has to do with very important issues like sharing biometric matching services, a common repository of data for different information systems, and the like. it is also key that we think through what it means if you have such a system and you believe in fundamental rights and privacy. we have to uphold our values also in fighting terrorism. therefore full compliance with fundamental rights and data protection rules is a precondition for the way we manage and share that information for law enforcement. on 28 april the european union data protection package was formally adopted by the co-legislators, and now it has to be implemented and will require measures to ensure clarity, guidance and workable solutions for the day-to-day work of what i just mentioned, the practitioners and the interoperability. sharing expertise, experiences and practices internationally will facilitate a practical and more uniform support for practitioners when implementing and applying data protection requirements. the commission’s high level expert group – the commissioner was speaking about that earlier – is also expected to look at the data protection implications of the various options to achieve interoperability and to report on progress to the council.
in writing. i believe that data sharing will have a positive impact on the fight against transnational crime and terrorism, but i also believe that each country has its own responsibility. it is very important that we all accept that the sphere of security and defence is a priority of national policy. for our fight to be effective, member states need to invest in internal order, thus tackling transnational criminal groups on their own territory. the fight against terrorism is also a fight that concerns nation states. so i believe that only through strong nation states and local solutions will we be able to counter international crime and terrorism.
in writing. – investigations of major terrorist attacks in europe have highlighted the contradiction between the seemingly free movement of terrorists across europe and the lack of eu-wide intelligence sharing. stories of information non-sharing have emerged in the aftermath of all major terrorist attacks in europe since the madrid bombings in 2004. information sharing is our only effective weapon against asymmetric and unpredictable threats. the exchange of this information, and the coordination of law enforcement activities between two sovereign states presents unique challenges. the ability to work through these challenges is paramount in negotiating effective agreements between the member states in order to maximize the potential of using advance information. however, despite support for such coordination, we should equally recognise that there is significant work to be done. in part, this is because the political, administrative and judicial framework varies from one member state to another, which adds further impediments to effective information sharing and coordination. i am very encouraged and confident in the international support given to advanced information in the continued fight against international terrorist and criminal organisations.
once again, turkey, and in particular its leader erdogan, have demonstrated by their actions that they do not respect democratic principles and that they do not belong in the european union. the lifting of the immunity of 138 deputies - a quarter of the deputies in the turkish majlis - is a crushing, blatant, brazen, flagrant blow against democracy. this is the beginning of a massive purge of politicians in turkey to discredit and destroy the pro-kurdish peoples' democratic party. i would not be surprised if these actions were followed by an escalation of the conflict with the kurdish minority with multiple bombings, loss of life and a veritable hot civil war in turkey. that's how the dictator erdogan works and will continue to work unless we stop him. i call on the commission and the council to activate the human rights clause and to freeze all agreements with turkey. erdogan's actions are becoming intolerable and the european union, which claims to be resistant to democratic principles, must not only in words but also in deeds show that such actions will not be tolerated by a candidate member of the european union. turkey is not our partner, turkey is a racketeer.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i am here today to reply to your oral question on the very important topic of european union administration. you ask, in particular, if the commission has analysed your suggestion for a regulation for an open, efficient and independent european union administration, and whether the commission has any plans to put forward its own proposal. you ask for the reasons that have prevented the commission, thus far, from acting on its right of initiative in this field. let me assure you from the start that the commission is extremely serious about its commitment to guaranteeing that citizens can interact with a european administration that is open, independent and efficient. that is why the commission has, for instance, set up the transparency portal. this portal provides citizens with direct access to information and will help them to be better informed and better prepared to follow and participate in the eu decision-making process. i also want to mention the commission inter-service group on public administration quality and innovation. this group is working to enable, among others, national administrations, and therefore european businesses, fully to tap the potential of the internal market, joint economic governance and the structural funds. apart from these more recent initiatives, and as you know, the commission has a well-established set of horizontal rules which govern its administrative behaviour – as, i would expect, does parliament. this includes the general provisions of the code of good administrative behaviour, as well as a range of provisions on staff and financial regulations, on data protection and access to documents, to name but a few of the areas covered. all of these horizontal rules are a reflection of the existing legal principles of good administration, such as non-discrimination, impartiality and fairness, and the right to have one’s affairs handled within a reasonable time, etcetera. as the eu administers a range of diverse and mostly highly specialised activities, it also relies on sector-specific rules. citizens and businesses concerned by such specialised activities are guaranteed specific administrative rights. examples here are numerous: we have specific rights in competition law, and in relation to novel foods, the authorisation of medicinal products, gmos, trade defence, etcetera. the commission has analysed your suggestion for a regulation for an open, efficient and independent european union administration against these existing horizontal and sectoral rules, principles and practices. as a result of that analysis, the commission is, at this stage, not convinced that the benefits of using a legislative instrument that would codify administrative law would outweigh the costs. codification is a complex and delicate exercise that can often have unintended consequences. in having to clarify the relationship and to ensure consistency with these more detailed rules, codification would require the revision of the considerable volume of existing eu legislation. even where done with care and a sense of proportion, codification may still lead to problems of delimitation between the general and specific rules – not making legislation any clearer or litigation any easier for citizens and businesses affected. codification would remove the flexibility required to adapt to particular needs. these challenges and difficulties are also confirmed by the draft regulation. the text does not identify what the gaps and inconsistencies in current law are, and therefore what the justification is for coming forward with horizontal legislative solutions as a proportionate answer to deal with them. it also does not assess the concrete impact of the provisions it contains. while the text is said to be without prejudice to existing rules and rights under specific union legislation, it provides for no legal mechanism to ensure delimitation between the general and the specific rules. it rather seems to suggest that a case-by-case analysis would continue to apply. lastly, there is the matter of ways to identify administrative activities of the institutions and bodies that would be subject to the new rules. instead of engaging in a highly complex exercise of codification, with uncertain value-added, the commission is of the opinion that we should continue to address concrete problems where they arise, analyse the root causes and then take the sort of action that is needed. the commission analyses each case of alleged maladministration, and will try to rectify any error that has been made. it also engages constructively in the context of all inquiries by the european ombudsman. that being said, at this stage the commission is not aware of any pattern of cases of maladministration that could be addressed through a general administrative law. i am, as is the commission, therefore grateful for the work you have done, and will continue working with you on all options and good arguments as to how we can improve our citizens’ life.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to congratulate mrs hautala and the legal service of the european parliament, who have put so much effort into the preparation of this important document for the european administration. the european parliament has repeatedly called for the adoption of a regulation on the administrative procedure of the union. so far, the european commission has remained deaf to our appeals. let's hope this time he makes the effort to make that proposal a reality. the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights provide for the right to good administration. but for citizens to exercise this right, they need clear, effective, predictable and accessible procedures in their dealings with the european administration. the benefits of such legislation are undeniable: on the one hand it will fill the gaps in the union's legal system and increase legal certainty by giving citizens and legal persons clearer rights, and on the other hand it will help to establish trust in the work of the european administration, thus strengthening the union's legitimacy. with our proposal we are answering important questions such as the opening of administrative proceedings, time limits and remedies. i believe that an important element of the proposal is the reaffirmation of the fundamental procedural rights which aim to make the european administration an open, efficient and independent administration. the protection of fundamental rights, such as the right to be heard, the right of every person to have access to documents concerning him or her, the requirement to provide the necessary information to the parties, are only some of the legal remedies available to citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. for us in the european conservatives and reformists group, the issue of an open, efficient, independent administration of the european union is essential, both for european citizens and for the proper functioning of the european union institutions. despite several initiatives by parliament and the texts of the treaties calling for an open, efficient and independent european administration, the european commission has not yet made a proposal for a regulation on the subject. a common european administrative law relating to institutions, bodies, agencies and services would apply to the institutions of the european union and should cover aspects ranging from conflict of interest to simple and intelligibly drafted administrative acts. this would not only serve european citizens but also the institutions themselves and make them more accessible and understandable to the citizens of the member states. i am curious to see what proposal the european commission would put forward and what place parliament's views on the subject would have in it.
author. the development of political and economic relations with tajikistan is of the utmost interest to the european union. the country is an important partner in the context of the union's strategy for central asia, which aims to strengthen trade and energy links between europe and the region. it is also important to note the role of tajikistan as an important ally in the fight against terrorism and fundamentalism. although the country has been searching for its democratic identity for 26 years, the human rights situation is deteriorating. the authorities in tajikistan have been putting severe pressure on free-thinkers, the political opposition and independent media. the repression of civil society, in particular of ngos defending human rights, is also severe. political charges have been brought against critics of the government, and prominent lawyers, journalists, and human rights defenders have been imprisoned. i call on the authorities in tajikistan to immediately release all political prisoners in the country, to respect international human rights law and to guarantee the fundamental freedoms of the country's citizens.
in writing. the eu is one of the largest donors of financial assistance to central asian countries, including tajikistan, as regulated by the 2010 partnership and cooperation agreement. but we are not doing this for free, we want real results, respect for the commitments made by the country, respect for peace, human rights and freedoms. in recent years, we have been watching the political situation with great concern. but the situation is not getting better, it's getting worse. but while most of my colleagues are calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, i want to emphasize something else - foreign fighters. today, most of them come from asian countries, including tajikistan. although the only opposition party, let's not forget that the islamic renaissance party is primarily an islamist party, although there is no direct evidence of its connection to the islamic state. in this context, i would like to call for an end to the repressive measures against the opposition, as they can encourage precisely those who are at risk of joining extremist groups. instead, i believe that ensuring a fair and objective trial, respecting international human rights laws, and allowing lawyers to perform their duties freely and without fear of reprisals is the right path for the country's development.
member of the commission. – mr president, we take good note of parliament’s concerns regarding the human rights situation in vietnam. this debate is definitely timely and highly relevant. when we discuss the situation in vietnam today, we must take account of where the country came from. then we see clear evidence of progress, notably in the socio-economic domain. however, governance structures, and in particular respect for human rights, remain areas of concern. the frequent use of controversial national security provisions in the penal code to repress dissent is very worrying. this does not mean that we do not recognise important positive developments. i would highlight the ratification of the un convention against torture and other degrading or inhumane treatment (uncat) in 2015. vietnam is also a frontrunner in the region regarding lgtbi rights. we also see increasing – and often critical – public debate in social media. in other key areas, however, vietnam is found wanting: freedom of expression and assembly, of religion or belief, and application of the death penalty. we note frequent cases of harassment and arrest of human rights activists. we also note the conviction of independent journalists, bloggers and victims of land confiscation to harsh prison sentences for peacefully expressing their opinions. we systematically discuss these issues with the authorities, including at the highest level, calling on the government to end persecution and harassment and to release all peaceful human-rights advocates in the country. these issues are also addressed through our annual enhanced human rights dialogue. beyond that, we provide specific support to promote and strengthen respect for human rights and the rule of law. as stated in the joint press statement of last december, the eu offers support to vietnam’s institutional reforms, bringing them into line with the recommendations it accepted in the united nations universal periodic review. we also stand ready to support the drafting of the law on belief and religion, to ensure its compliance with international commitments, and to support the implementation of uncat. the eu wants a strong and prosperous vietnam: a vietnam that respects the rule of law and human rights, and honours its international commitments. let me be clear: the european union and vietnam enjoy a close and deepening mutually beneficial partnership, which is based on the partnership and cooperation agreement and the free trade agreement. but – as in any relationship – we have our differences, and first and foremost in the critical area of human rights. we are addressing those differences with all the instruments at our disposal. our objective is to achieve tangible results. i have confidence that, over time, we will contribute to strengthening human rights in vietnam as a fundamental element of our partnership.
i support this report, which concerns the necessary modernisation of the system and which will greatly facilitate citizens of the member states of the european union. there are still too many administrative burdens and formalities when it comes to the exchange of certain public documents in europe. it is our duty and responsibility to simplify procedures and reduce the high costs of transporting and translating certain public documents, such as birth certificates, death certificates, marriage certificates. i support the introduction of standard european multilingual forms, modelled on the e-forms for social security. they will significantly reduce translation costs without imposing obligations to recognise the content itself. i would like to reiterate my support for this report and congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council to promote the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the presentation of official documents in the european union. i find the proposal made by the european commission to be extremely effective in terms of reducing the administrative costs of citizens, facilitating the processes of legalisation and certification of cross-border documents. the recognition of certificates supports one of the fundamental rights of european citizens - the free movement of people across borders. i believe that all the administrative obstacles to the mobility of europeans can be avoided by building a single european framework, which includes clearly defined practical tools of the internal market information system and multilingual standard certificates. strategically, the positive outcome can be expected to be an increase in the professional skills and competitiveness of european citizens, taking into account the existing single european qualifications framework, and a significant easing of the procedures for training abroad.
in writing. ‒ on 9 june, we adopted by a large majority in parliament a relaxed set of rules on the free movement of european citizens by simplifying the requirements for certain official documents. following these rules, administrative formalities such as 'legalization' and 'posting' of documents such as birth certificate, marriage certificate, death certificate, criminal record certificate, etc. will be abolished. new multilingual versions will be developed to avoid the need to translate official documents. the rules will be fully applicable from 2019. unfortunately, at this stage, such a text has not yet been adopted for documents relating to the legal status of enterprises, diplomas and documents proving disability. this could become a reality in two years' time when the scope of the regulation is reviewed. i believe that citizens should have as few administrative obstacles as possible to their movement within the eu.
i voted 'abstention' on this dossier, as i am opposed in principle to the idea of increasing the number of judges. this is the fourth proposal in the form of a regulatory text and the result of interinstitutional negotiations. the reforms proposed by the court of justice of the european union, including the abolition of the civil service tribunal, are a long overdue measure. however, the aim remains to transfer all staff to the court of justice and at the same time to increase the number of judges to two for each member state. the presentation costs warn that this would cost around 20 million euros. there is insufficient evidence of the impact that this increase in the number of judges will have.
i supported the resolution because i believe that the european commission has been called upon on several occasions to present legislation to ensure an open, efficient and independent administration of the institutions of the european union. i support the idea of such legislation because it would benefit both citizens and the institutions themselves, as it would help to reduce conflict of interest practices, for example. i look forward to seeing a proposal from the european commission and in particular whether it shares parliament's view.
we have received the first, second, third and most recently the fourth railway package. it is time to realize that rail transport is the future of the transport sector, not just because it is cleaner, greener, safer, cheaper and because it is proven to be the cheapest. i supported this document solely because of my desire to develop and improve rail transport so that it can be competitive with other modes of transport. however, it should be noted that without support for this industry, it would have been in no way able to fight the chinese upstream producers, which enjoy huge political and financial support.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me start by expressing my thanks to ms metsola and, through you, to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) for having given us the opportunity of this debate to reflect about how the european institutions, and particularly the commission, can better inform the european parliament about negotiations for international agreements. as you know, in the context of the new inter-institutional agreement for better law-making, parliament, the commission and the council have made a commitment to meet within six months of the entry into force of the inter-institutional agreement, in order to negotiate improved practical arrangements for cooperation and information sharing. this trilateral approach reflects the fact that the obligation to inform parliament fully and immediately falls on both the commission and the council, in accordance with their institutional roles. for example, it does not fall on the commission to inform parliament about decisions taken or texts adopted by council. but let me reiterate the importance that we, in the commission, attach to our obligations under the treaty and to our existing commitment under the framework agreement: we are committed to providing parliament with full and immediate information at all stages of negotiations for international agreements. the commission stands by this commitment and monitors its implementation closely. the framework agreement established the practice that information concerning international agreements should, as a general rule, be provided to parliament through the responsible parliamentary committee. in line with this sector-specific approach, the commission has instructed its services to arrange directly with the relevant parliamentary committees the modalities for the provision of information and documents, to allow for optimal solutions in this area. the commission believes that our obligations are, generally speaking, well respected and that commissioners and their services are doing their part to ensure that parliament is well informed. this includes the provision of confidential information and documents and the specific arrangements set out in the framework agreement. as regards specifically the work of the civil liberties committee, commission services have established a practice of providing regular updates to the committee on pending international agreement. commission representatives have always been willing to come and give an update on ongoing international negotiations, either in camera or in a public meeting, as appropriate. likewise, practical arrangements for informing parliament about re-admission agreements have so far included regular presentations by senior commission officials to the civil liberties committee in ordinary meetings. the commission is ready to provide such information whenever requested, be it in public or, when appropriate, in a restricted meeting. the commission is also open to discussing with parliament whether and how practice can be improved. i am looking forward to hearing your concrete proposals, which will fit into the trilateral approach that parliament, the council and the commission, are to start soon.
on behalf of the ecr group. i welcome the initiative of the rapporteur and would like to discuss the topics for debate that he has proposed. the treaty of lisbon thus strengthens parliament's role in the conclusion of international agreements, ensuring a more general application of the approval procedures and better information to parliament during the process leading to the conclusion of an agreement. this is pursuant to article 218 (10) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the case-law of the court of justice of the european union clearly shows that parliament's right to be informed is not limited to requests for information made by parliament but requires the institutions to take the initiative. but quite often, in practice, parliament's opinion is not taken into account when international agreements are concluded, and this, in our view, by the group of european conservatives and reformists, is a scandalous disregard for the rights of the directly elected body, namely parliament. the last case is the agreement with turkey on migration, with all the conditionality of the word 'agreement'. i am sure that all of us here today, however many of us there may be, are aware of the facts surrounding this agreement, but nevertheless i would like to remind you again that, according to the official statements of 18 march this year, the members of the european council and the republic of turkey, still the republic of turkey, signed a joint declaration on cooperation in the field of migration, a declaration which is formally non-binding but which provides for precise mutual commitments by the parties from a political and budgetary point of view. the so-called agreement is a secret international agreement which, under article 218 (6) of the treaty on european union, should have been concluded only after the express consent of the european parliament. this, ladies and gentlemen, means that the draft agreement with turkey should have been discussed here in this chamber, should have been put to the vote. first, the european representatives should decide whether there should be such an agreement, and then discuss the specific texts of that agreement, and not be put into the role of a mere witness, a listener to a pr action made by the european commission, the council of europe and people who are not elected but claim to be european leaders. we are all aware that no such approval has been given for the agreement in question. none of us has declared, delegated rights to the european commission and the council to enter into such pr agreements. the subject was raised for discussion in the legal affairs committee by colleagues from another political group, and representatives of the legal service of the european parliament also took part in the discussion at our request. they have expressed their views that the agreement concluded, the so-called agreement, has no legally binding force, which they have refused to express in writing. this is very strange. they say there's an agreement, but it's not legally binding, it's some kind of public relations message. that in itself is an outrageous claim. it is scandalous because it admits something that we all, the european representatives, have long suspected, namely that the self-proclaimed but unelected leaders of the european union are making, to put it mildly, shameful and scandalous deals behind the backs of the european taxpayers. they agree to pay a racketeering ransom of billions of euros - money from every european's pocket - to an outspoken dictator like turkish president erdogan to save them from what they themselves have caused, namely the huge crisis caused by the wave of immigration that german chancellor merkel has invited. this shameful and un-european deal with an aggressive, arrogant and dangerous dictator, such as the current turkish president erdogan, is a violation of all so-called european values. for us, there is nothing more shameful than to talk about freedom of speech and to be patronized by a dictator, such as erdogan, who every day proves in practice, on television, live, how freedom of speech is crushed, how newsrooms are seized, how media are closed, how journalists are sued, how journalists are shot in a courtroom, when they, these journalists, reveal a disgusting truth. in order not to be too vocal, i will give an example with the attack on the editor of the newspaper "jumhuriyet" - it is a turkish newspaper, and its editor is the person who revealed the simple, clear and expected by all the fact that the financing, arming, treating, training of the fighters of the "islamic state" is from the republic of turkey. and that's why he was asked for a life sentence, and then he was shot in the courtroom. another example is the takeover of the editorial board of the largest turkish opposition newspaper in turkey, zaman. i think the examples i have listed are a good example of the need for information on such agreements. as a co-legislator, parliament must be informed of all the details and all the stages of the procedures. i call on the commission to honour its commitments. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. i agree with you, colleague. that's my question too. no agreement, according to the reply of the legal service of the european parliament. there is no deal. it's a statement, a press event, but there's no agreement that meets the norms, the rules, the international law of making an agreement. that's the scandal. i agree with you on this. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. that's my opinion too. in my view, what has been achieved between the european council and turkey cannot be called an agreement. and yes, maybe we can call it "real politics", but i think, sorry, you may not agree with me, but it's a pretty stupid policy, because the european parliament, the european council has backed down to turkey's real politics. turkey is gaining from this, we are losing.
mr. chairman, this debate, while emotional at times, clearly shows one thing. and that is probably the main message to the commission, which is represented here by the commissioner, that the european parliament really wants to be a full player in the preparation of international agreements with third countries. and i think that is right, given how the legitimacy of the european parliament has been strengthened since 1979, when members were directly elected and when we, the members of the european parliament, represent 500 million european citizens. the treaty on the functioning of the european union has been cited here several times today as the fundamental document of primary law, and it clearly states in article 218 that the european parliament is immediately and fully informed at all stages of this procedure, i.e. when preparing the adoption of union agreements with third countries. i think it is clear from this, commissioner, that this information cannot be based solely on parliament's initiative, as you have indicated somewhat in your contribution, because parliament cannot always know at what stage the commission is in negotiations with a third country. we have difficulty in following the experts and the commission in the various stages of the negotiations. i think, and i agree with the procedure and the view of the european court of justice, that you should establish a permanent mechanism, and you have also spoken here about a permanent information mechanism, to ensure that the european parliament, in particular its committee and its members, is automatically informed and able to comment when we move to the next stage of negotiating an international agreement. of course, this relationship is based on the right to be informed, but on the other hand we should emphasise here that the european parliament subsequently gives its consent to a given international agreement, and if this consent is not to be formal but is to be full-fledged, if we are talking about the european parliament as a key institution of the european union with its legitimacy of direct election, then i think that in the course of the negotiations you should no longer just inform us, but you should also be interested in what the views of the meps - at least in the committee in question - are on the issue, whether we agree with the direction of the negotiations, whether we agree with a certain type of international agreement at all. i think that in the future this can prevent an embarrassment on the floor of the european parliament where a negotiated agreement simply will not be approved because a majority of members will not agree with it. so i very much urge you to really create a mechanism that not only formally fulfils article 218, but that actually makes the european parliament a partner vis-à-vis the commission and the council in negotiating such agreements. the subject of turkey has been mentioned several times, and i will not speculate and debate the extent of the political significance of this proclamation, but i will be very topical. the commissioner said that the european commission was seeking to conclude agreements with nine countries in africa and the middle east. i welcome the initiative, but since then i have received many questions in e-mails from my czech constituents about what such agreements will look like. so as a member of parliament myself, i feel that the public is interested in what is in those agreements. so please, in the interests of the legitimacy of the european parliament, give us the information in time so that we can then vote with a clear conscience on any agreement. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
a question asked by raising a blue card. you said you supported the agreements with turkey and other countries. don't you think these agreements should be discussed here first, in this room, before they're voted on, before they become agreements? is this not the order in the european parliament's chamber, if it is an elected body representing the european citizens?
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i may be tempted to start with the words 'democratization' and 'democratic process' when speaking of the democratic republic of congo (drc), but unfortunately the words that come to mind are 'fragility', 'volatility' and this implies vigilance and responsibility. we must first of all condemn the massacres in the east of the drc as such, but also place them in a more general context. i would like to emphasize three elements. firstly, the massacres in the east of the drc must be brought to light and the perpetrators brought to justice. it is urgent that cooperation between the drc armed forces and monusco should resume and that monusco should be able to make full use of its extended mandate. as for the union, we must not lose sight of the fight against impunity and ensure that security sector reforms finally bear fruit. let us also remain firm on the necessary outcomes in the justice system. secondly, as regards the electoral process, let us ensure that the deterioration of the security situation is not used to further undermine the electoral process, which should be conducted directly and vice versa. in the crisis of legitimacy of power that followed the 2011 elections, any event is essential. in this context, the holding of a genuine dialogue between the opposition and the government should not omit the essential role of civil society, as the political deadlock in the country has direct consequences on the citizens. we expect a clear statement from the ceni on the election timetable, the files that must not exclude young people, and the budget. finally, the african union has an important role to play, and i am referring in particular to the role of the ombudsman, mr kodjo. the european union and the rest of the international community have already expressed their support for this mediation. we now need a more active presence in the public space. every word counts. in addition, the african union should remind all stakeholders of their commitments under the addis ababa framework agreement for peace and security in the great lakes region. today, therefore, coordination, a clear message, respect for the current constitution, will help us to avoid a humanitarian and security crisis on the scale of the congolese giant.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing complicated about combating radicalisation, but one thing is clear: it is not fought with empty words and fancy slogans. the causes of radicalization and the reasons for it are very simple, they are two. first of all, someone has to pay for it, and second of all, there has to be someone to radicalize. who's paying for it? saudi arabia, qatar, turkey -- countries that practice radical islam, that pay for salafist extremist organizations. who's being radicalized? those who went to european countries were also received in the wrong way. they were told: "your difference is very precious. be different. stay together, stay in one place. confess your values. that's the mistake. these people should be told: "if you want to come to germany, you will do as the germans do. if you want to go to poland, you'll do as the poles do. and the rest is just empty talk and a very serious long empty talk and political hypocrisy.
as you know, madam chairman, i am responsible for iran in the delegation as well as in the energy committee. europe must benefit economically and politically from the nuclear deal. european business is geographically and economically closest to re-establishing ties with iranian business, especially in the energy sector. we need to regulate these relations in the triangle america, europe, iran. this is a european commission job. there are remaining uncertainties that are with the timing of the lifting of the sanctions, both with that timing and with the additional financial sanctions by the united states. at the request of the european union, bulgaria has suspended its nuclear programme for a second power plant. the bulgarian state company was sued last week for nearly 650 million euros by the russian state company. there was a proposal from the bulgarian prime minister that the government sell the russian nuclear reactor to iran. and here's where i ask the question: will we have the support of the european commission, given that the iranian government is clearly not in a hurry to democratize the country and there are still obstacles to full capacity in iran-united states relations?
in writing. – in january 2016 the council lifted all nuclear related economic and financial eu sanctions against iran. this follows verification by the international atomic energy agency (iaea) on the same date that iran had implemented the agreed nuclear-related measures as set out in the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa). the eu has been joined by the us and the un which also lifted their sanctions against iran upon verification. however, the us has suspended not terminated its nuclear-related sanctions on iran while at the same non-nuclear us economic sanctions remain in place, notably the ban on us citizens and companies trading with iran. recently, the us imposed fresh sanctions on iran over an iranian ballistic missile test. continuing us sanctions represent a real trade barrier for many european companies which want to access the iranian market especially since many of them have business activities in the us. the eu should discuss this issue with our american partners in order to find a working solution that will benefit all sides. trade with iran is important for the eu, but a transatlantic partnership with the us is vital for the union and its member states since it is the largest bilateral trade and investment relationship in the world.
on behalf of the ecr group. mrs the president, the honourable commissioner, the honourable members, the honourable member kawada, family law is a sensitive subject and it should always be treated in a way that provides the greatest possible care and attention and the greatest possible delicacy to this public sphere, which is usually regulated by local customs, by local traditions. over the past few years we have witnessed increased cooperation in many legal areas. one of them concerns the cross-border aspects of legal disputes arising from married couples or cohabiting couples from different countries. national provisions on family law often differ. for example, the concept of a partnership without marriage is not known and is not part of the legal system of some member states, such as italy, poland, romania and bulgaria. we often encounter cases of conflicting provisions that can lead to additional legal hurdles and can lead to even more headaches. there are strong political currents in such legal disputes and i warn that these proposals could lead to substantial differences in the legal systems of the member states. i am an advocate of better cooperation in many ways, but we must not forget the principle of subsidiarity.
ppe), in written form. ladies and gentlemen, there are about 16 million international couples in europe who are married or living in a registered partnership, and at least 650 000 of them end their marriage or partnership each year. decisions on matters relating to the matrimonial property regime and the property consequences of registered partnerships are therefore of paramount importance to european citizens. at present, it is very difficult for international couples to understand which courts have jurisdiction and which law applies to their personal situation and property. the rules vary considerably from country to country and sometimes lead to conflict situations. international couples affected by a division of common property face complex issues, in particular as regards the applicable law, the choice of court, and the recognition and enforcement of judgments. the adoption of this regulation will avoid legal differences between the 18 member states participating in enhanced cooperation. this will help european citizens avoid legal uncertainty and the associated costs when dividing their property in the event of divorce, separation or death. the decision by the member states to enter into this enhanced cooperation is particularly timely and i am pleased that it contains much of the 2013 ep recommendations, especially as regards regulatory security and clarity.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, european cooperation in the field of education and training is voluntary but essential. cooperation and, in particular, exchanges of best practice have proved to be very useful. yet very little is communicated within the member states and the various bodies participating in the framework strategy. we should encourage and further support member states in order to ensure coherent, transparent and inclusive education providing an appropriate response to the needs of the current diverse groups of learners in both formal and non—formal educational settings. creating alternative ways of learning and facilitating the recognition of learning are vital means of widening access to educational opportunities. better cooperation between member states is needed on the establishment of new, innovative and interactive methods of teaching, training and learning, where individuals are active participants in the educational process. that will increase the attractiveness and effectiveness of the educational process and will enhance the development of students’ creativity. further efforts are needed with regard to improving early childhood education and fostering its modernisation, and there is also an urgent need for reinforcement of the renewed european agenda for adult learning. better cooperation between the eu and the national authorities is required in order to find the right approach to swiftly, fully and sustainably integrating refugees, migrants and asylum seekers into education and training systems and ensuring that those who have already obtained qualifications get proper recognition for them. to conclude, i would underline the importance of better monitoring in order to implement education and training strategies successfully.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the report on the follow-up to the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training (education and training 2020). i think it rightly focuses on the key role of the teacher in the educational process and the need to take measures to increase the attractiveness and status of the teaching profession. we live in an era where the ever-increasing need for new skills due to changing labour market needs requires more than ever investment in continuing professional development programmes for teachers. i share the view that to modernize education, we need not only technological innovation, but pedagogical innovation. it is clear to all of us that educational institutions are in dire need of adequate equipment. in addition to investing in infrastructure, we also need to address the need to increase the digital skills of teachers, for whom the digital revolution is also a major challenge. our teachers need to not only be able to use new technologies in the classroom, but also be able to teach them.
in writing. – europe needs skills and strategic thinking more than ever. our future, but also our present, belongs to those with the right capabilities, to the innovation- and knowledge-based industries. it is therefore crucial to have an overarching eu-wide strategic framework for cooperation in education and training. the education and training 2010 work programme provided a good basis that et2020 can continue to build on. i particularly support the inclusive model, focused on exchanges of best practice, mutual learning, gathering and dissemination of information and evidence of what works, as well as advice and support for policy reforms. the effective application of this strategy would not only allow us to devise policies advancing the social and professional fulfilment of all citizens, but also to progress further towards sustainable economic prosperity and employability. fulfilling the four key objectives of et2020 is instrumental in achieving this vision we have set ourselves. as a member of the european parliament working towards enhancing europe’s innovation and entrepreneurial potential, i am glad to see that et2020 has as one of its key aims enhancing creativity and innovation, including entrepreneurship, at all levels of education and training. we must indeed boost creativity and innovation, which are crucial for enterprise development and to europe’s ability to compete internationally.
commissioner, welcome to the club. you know i value your work and i've personally spoken to you about these issues. as far as renewable energy and low carbon emissions are concerned, there are also cases like bulgaria. on the one hand, we have long since exceeded the percentage of energy from renewable sources, and this has led to an increase in the price of electricity and the decline of a traditional industry for us - coal mining. but countries like those in eastern europe are lagging behind in energy efficiency. on the other hand, increasing the percentage of green energy in the mix did not solve the problem of the poorest member state of the european union, our energy dependence on russia. the destruction of the coal industry made bulgaria even more dependent on russia. instead of producing our own solid fuel or importing it from ukraine, we're importing more gas from one source. even the question of stopping south stream has not solved the problem. mr commissioner mr. cante, you and the european commission understand our problem perfectly. but how do we strike a balance between protecting the climate and respecting the political independence of the european union from third countries? that's the main question.
in writing. i fully support the inclusion of energy poverty in the directive. especially in countries like bulgaria, this is a major infrastructure issue. at the same time, there are indicative targets, i.e. the 40% target for renewables, etc. we need to improve the infrastructure in terms of heating, electricity, etc., as is the case in my member state, for example, in order to be able to achieve the pre-determined targets. while it is important to provide guidance and to push for change, we need better regional cooperation and support for regions in difficulty through better and targeted use of european investment funds and a more differentiated approach overall. energy efficiency and strategic policy orientation go hand in hand. while some projects, such as nord stream, are constantly under discussion, others have been abandoned altogether, such as south stream. eastern european countries will greatly benefit from such projects and from an overall improvement, not only in terms of fossil fuel dependency, but also in terms of infrastructure and diversification.
in writing. ‒ i supported the establishment of a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged irregularities and maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax fraud and expressed my wish to be a member of it, as i am strongly opposed to this type of crime. tax evasion and tax fraud are a serious problem for the member states and the eu as a whole, costing the budget a considerable amount of money each year. resources that can be invested in tackling the challenges we face, such as the migrant crisis. the mandate of the committee of inquiry is adequately defined to achieve the objectives pursued. i look forward to the new commission's work and believe that in 12 months we will have achieved good results and will have expressed our opinion and recommendations for improving the situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the republic of lebanon on the general principles for the participation of the republic of lebanon in union programmes. lebanon is part of the euro-mediterranean partnership, which promotes economic integration and democratic reform among 16 countries in north africa and the middle east. the european neighbourhood policy enables the eu to offer its neighbours privileged relations, based on a mutual commitment to shared values such as democracy and human rights, the rule of law, good governance, market economy principles and sustainable development. bilateral trade between the eu and lebanon is steadily increasing and the gradual liberalisation of trade between the two parties to the agreement will support the lebanese economy and bring the necessary security, stability and prosperity.
in writing. ‒ i support the agreement between the european union and lebanon and the protocol containing the framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of lebanon in eu programmes. as part of the european neighbourhood policy partners, i believe that the agreement will have a positive impact on lebanon and, through eu assistance, contribute to greater stability, democratic institutions, political openness and economic development in the country. given the immediate challenges posed by the impact of the crisis in syria, the foundations that will help the country's long-term prosperity must be laid. the partnership with the eu will contribute to the deepening of democracy and respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. it will also contribute to the development of a sustainable and inclusive economy that reduces social and regional inequalities, creates jobs and improves people's living standards, increases productivity and ensures protection of the natural environment. it should be noted that lebanon, in conditions of peace and stability, has very good prospects for economic development, as it is well situated in terms of access to water and fertile soil, and possesses a high percentage of arable land and a skilled workforce.
in writing. – the lebanese economy remains fragile. regulatory inefficiency and uncertainty exacerbated by political instability and ongoing security threats by violent extremists continue to undermine private-sector activity and development. the horizontal framework established by the protocol sets out principles for economic, financial and technical cooperation and allows the republic of lebanon to receive assistance from the european union pursuant to those programmes. eu development aid goes to 150 countries around the world and i believe lebanon should be one of them. hence, i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on a draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia and the slovak republic to the european union. the protocol is an addition to the framework agreement between the european union and lebanon, which i supported, to include eu member states that acceded after 2004.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. the framework agreement creates a favourable climate for economic relations between the european union and lebanon, in particular in the field of trade and investment. the inclusion of all full members of the european union, including bulgaria and romania, is of particular importance for the implementation of the framework agreement and the achievement of the objectives set out therein.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the draft report on the agreement with monaco, because it will close another loophole for tax evasion, and on a large scale. this shows clear steps towards the union's desire to curb these criminal acts against the community. but i should point out that we only started working on such agreements after the so-called luxembourg leaks became known.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information as it represents another step towards improving international cooperation in taxation and tax compliance. this agreement ensures that monaco will apply the equivalent of the eu directive on taxation of savings income and will limit tax fraud and tax evasion. the main purpose of the scheme is to provide mechanisms against situations where a taxable person tries to conceal capital representing income or assets for which no tax has been paid. the exchange of information will not only affect revenues such as interest and dividends, but also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. in line with the latest trends in the work of the oecd, the eu shall ensure unconditional exchange of information upon request. the agreement will enable tax administrations in the member states and monaco to correctly and unambiguously identify relevant taxpayers, to administer and enforce their tax laws across borders and to assess the likelihood of tax evasion.
in writing. – automatic exchange of financial information is essential for combating money laundering and tax evasion. moving towards greater tax transparency is essential for the sustainability of european economy and i take the chance to vote in favour and support the report as it stands.
in writing. ‒ once again, i am voting against because i do not think that the european globalisation adjustment fund is the right instrument for implementing such policies, nor do i believe that it is an effective instrument that offers a return on investment in terms of reintegrating the dismissed workers back into the labour market. but i want to stress that both i and my group of european conservatives and reformists support measures that create growth and jobs. but this fund is not the right measure. in this case, it is proposed to allocate eur 1,8 million for the redundancies of 488 employees in belgium.
in writing. ‒ as you know, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or as a result of a continuation of the global financial and economic crisis. in this regard, the main aim of the fund is to help people who lost their jobs to reintegrate into the labour market. i supported the resolution because we should mobilise the fund to support belgium’s submitted application egf/2015/012 be/hainaut machinery for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the economic sector classified under the nace revision 2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment n.e.c.) in the region of hainaut (be32). in this case, 488 redundant workers, as well as 300 young people from the hainaut region are not in employment, education or training and the egf is expected to support them and give them new opportunities to reintegrate into the labour market. another reason why we should support the mobilisation of the fund is that belgian authorities have implemented all necessary measures to activate and receive the egf fund.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, as a result of the continuation of the global financial and economic crisis or as a result of a new global financial and economic crisis, and to assist their reintegration into the labour market. the report notes that following the announcement by caterpillar belgium s.a. on 23 february 2013 of the opening of a collective redundancy procedure at its production site in gosli, most of its 1399 workers were the subject of an egf/2014/011 be/caterpillar application, and underlines that the eno region faces a difficult labour market situation with an unemployment rate of 14,5% (5,9% above the national average), 1236 jobs closed in 2013 and 1878 in 2014, as well as a high level of long-term unemployment. the report argues that the egf should not replace measures which are an obligation for undertakings under national law.
in writing. - the bluefin tuna is a delicacy that we, the inhabitants of this planet, have almost driven to extinction. i'm glad that with the actions we're taking, all the inhabitants of planet earth have somewhat corrected this mistake of ours. unfortunately, this improvement in the picture is not primarily due to our work, but to other countries around the world. that our fisheries policy is, if not a disaster, then at least a failure and perhaps that is one of the reasons why iceland does not want to be part of the community. i hope we can start helping the rest of the world save the bluefin tuna.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean, as the scientifically based results of the tacs imposed in 2006 are more than promising. the positive development of the state of the bluefin tuna stock biomass justifies an increase in the total allowable catch, which nevertheless remains at levels well below those before the entry into force of the recovery plan. in order to ensure the effective and uniform application throughout the european union of the measures of the recovery plan, they are incorporated by this proposal into a regulation. this ensures a level playing field for all tuna fishermen, including those operating outside the eu, otherwise the efforts and restrictions applied to community fishermen will not be effective if different rules apply to external fishing fleets.
in writing. – all species are important in an ecosystem. the bluefin tuna, which has been endangered for several years, has suffered a catastrophic decline in stocks in the northern pacific ocean, of more than 96%. in order to preserve it the future we have to be cautious. changes have to be made so that we ensure the continuity of the bluefin tuna fish population. therefore, i vote in favour of the recovery plan for bluefin tune in the atlantic and the mediterranean.
in writing. - i'm amazed how we've been able to plan for cod, herring and catfish stocks separately. as we learned from textbooks in the first grade of school, everything in nature is connected, and i don't know how they managed to execute their plan, since these three fish are in constant interaction, and the habitat they inhabit is the same. i hope that now that we have joined forces and looked at all three fish species, and as this report and everyone else makes clear, we will achieve a balance between nature and man, and we will be able to both preserve the livelihood of fishermen and allow nature to act according to its own laws.
in writing. – the mortality rates of cod, herring and sprat are essential to the preservation of the marine ecosystem. the proposed agreement suggests that the fishing activities will be conducted in a sustainable way so that a balance is achieved. thinking for tomorrow we have to act today if we are to sustain stability in our ecosystems. hence, i vote in favour of the trilogue agreement as i believe that it is our duty to preserve the animal species populations.
in writing. - i decided to abstain on this record. it is a proposal on partnerships, but nevertheless it is part of a larger legislative package which also includes a proposal on the concept of partnership. this concept is not known in many countries. the mandatory application of the package as a whole means that member states italy, romania, bulgaria, slovakia, poland, lithuania and latvia will be subject to rules that do not exist in their national legislation. family and succession law is a competence of the member states and the adoption of this package will undermine the national sovereignty of a number of eu member states. in my opinion, this is not justified.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. free movement contributes not only to the free and facilitated exchange of goods and services but also to the creation of conditions for the emergence of international partnerships. the need to adopt the report affects 16 million european couples living together in a cross-border situation or having a cross-border dispute. the cost of parallel legal proceedings is estimated at eur 1.1 billion per year, an amount that will undoubtedly be reduced with the entry into force of the new regulation. the determination of jurisdiction for matters such as the existence, validity or recognition of marriage, maintenance and succession obligations of a deceased spouse and cross-border succession is an important advance that will have a direct positive effect in many households. they will enjoy better access to justice and harmonised rules tailored to each individual case and country. the new rules will apply in 18 eu countries that have agreed to join this 'enhanced cooperation' initiative, including bulgaria.
in writing. – the union is to constitute an area of freedom and justice with respect for fundamental rights and the different legal systems and traditions of the member states. the increased mobility of persons leads to a marked increase in the number of couples made up of nationals of different member states who may live in a member state of which they do not have the nationality and often acquire property in more than one union country. the divorce is a difficult time for anyone, who have to go through it, and european citizens should not be burdened even more by complicated administrative or legal procedures that cost time and money. therefore, i support the report and vote in favour.
in writing. - i decided to abstain on that record. as a result of the recent discussions and votes on this subject, there are some improvements. however, we are now voting on the rules and the same issues that i raised before and which are still in place. many member states are not familiar with the institution of the 'partnership' (italy, bulgaria, romania, slovakia, poland, lithuania, latvia). besides, we're voting on the actual proposals now. while it is not so problematic to vote on proposals for enhanced cooperation in relation to matrimonial property regimes, in relation to married couples, it is a very different matter when it comes to partnerships. while some countries support the enhanced cooperation proposal, they are obliged to transpose the two instruments and introduce measures for both concepts in their national legislative framework. this not only implies a consequent incompatibility with certain national policies; it is also a clear disregard for the sovereignty of certain member states and undermines the principle of subsidiarity, while promoting enhanced cooperation for the benefit of citizens. while i am generally in favour of this initiative, i cannot support the conflict it entails for some member states and therefore i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the security situation in the eastern congo is a matter of great concern. unfortunately, the armed conflicts in the eastern provinces of beni, butembo and lubero have been continuing with numerous reports of massacres, recruitment and use of children by armed groups, widespread of sexual and gender violence. there also reports of destruction of many houses, health centres and schools as well as violent attacks against local and international staff of humanitarian actors working in the region. it is a disturbing fact that the escalation of violence has often occurred in front of the eyes of congolese army and monusco which are present in the region to maintain stability, fight the armed forces and protect civilians. given the risk of further destabilisation in the eastern congo, the eu should actively work with the congolese authorities and the un mission in the country (monusco) to protect the civilian population, to neutralise the armed groups, to identify those responsible for the violence and to bring them to justice. last but not least, the eu should maintain its assistance to the people of the drc in order to improve the living conditions of the most vulnerable sections of the population.
in writing. – thousands of people have been massacred in bunia, north-eastern congo, as part of the long-running civil war in the country. this violence and the alarming and deteriorating humanitarian situation have to be stopped. i urge for a peaceful resolution of the conflict and i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ following the announcement of a set of priorities for the european commission in the field of education and training, my colleague mr krasnodebski produced a report which i very much support. it highlights the problem of skilled labour outflow from most member states, including bulgaria, and makes recommendations for closer cooperation to improve the quality and effectiveness of education and training at all levels. however, i abstained in the final vote because, in order to reach a consensus with the other groups, professor krasnodebski has agreed in several places to include proposals aimed at immigrants that are unacceptable to me and my policy such as the recommendation for special education corridors for newly arrived refugees to allow them to enroll in european universities, which for me personally says that the next step will be to create quotas for such, which will give them privileges at the expense of eu citizens, which i do not think is right.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i support the report on the follow-up to the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training, as i believe that more and more targeted support is needed for member states' efforts to develop their education and training systems, taking into account their differences and specific needs. unfortunately, the so-called 'educational poverty' and the low inclusion of people with low socioeconomic status in the education system continues to be a challenge facing europe. at the same time, high-quality and comprehensive education and training, responsive to labour market needs and developing '21st century skills', are key to the eu's social, cultural and economic development. i therefore believe that the conclusions of the review of the 'education and training 2020' strategic framework should be taken into account and the lessons learnt immediately applied, with a view to optimising the framework and taking more ambitious, coordinated and effective action in education and training policy at european and national level.
in writing. ‒ the report notes that education should contribute to the personal development and growth of young people, to make them proactive, responsible and informed, with civic, social, intercultural competences, and qualified professionals. education and training must play an important role in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. the report calls for a wider involvement of all relevant stakeholders in the work of the 'education and training 2020' strategic framework and encourages member states to take full advantage of the potential offered by digitalisation, ict and new technologies. the importance of teaching and mastering common basic skills such as ict, mathematics, critical thinking, foreign languages, mobility, etc., which would help young people to adapt more easily to the changing social and economic environment, is emphasised. i vote in favor of the proposed resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on progress on renewable energy, as it calls for less participation by member states and more regulation through eu legislation. i think it is unacceptable to say that the transition to a sustainable energy production model is a public priority that cannot be entrusted solely to the market, because we can take the example of finland, where it is the market that forces producers to promote innovation in renewable sources.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because the development of renewable energy is a key priority to the eu. this is so because renewable energy has the capacity, on one hand, to ensure the normal functioning of the eu energy market and, on the other hand, to secure eu energy supplies. furthermore, the development of renewable energy will facilitate rational use of europe’s energy resources, technology development, smart infrastructure, economic growth and job creation. most importantly, the development of renewable energy will significantly decrease energy cost for europe’s citizens and businesses. in the light of this, the eu should continue its work to reach the 2020 targets for renewable energy. however, in order to achieve those targets the eu should promote tax cuts for renewable energy and, in particular, reform the energy taxation directive to facilitate further the shift from fossil energy to renewable energy. furthermore, the eu should promote regional cooperation and coordination including sharing best practices among member states in order to develop the rational use of renewable energy sources. last but not least, the eu should work to promote collective and democratic management of renewable energy with a view to ensuring a fully sovereign, efficient and clean european energy model.
in writing. ‒ the the report notes that the eu is generally making good progress towards its 2020 renewable energy targets, but that further active action is needed in some member states. ambitious renewable energy policies, combined with energy efficiency, are a key driver for reducing the eu's import dependency and overall energy import costs, and for increasing energy security vis-à-vis external suppliers. the eu imports more than half of the energy it consumes, and the cost of these imports amounts to more than €1 billion a day (more than 50% of total imports). the report recognises that enhanced regional cooperation in the field of renewable energy is key to ensuring the further development of renewable energy sources. i support the proposed resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive because i believe that energy efficiency should be a priority for the member states, not for the european commission, which creates an additional bureaucratic burden. i think the market would regulate energy efficiency most favorably.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i support the report on the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. improving energy efficiency and achieving energy savings are key factors for protecting the environment and climate, improving the competitiveness of the economy, and creating jobs. they also ensure the security of energy supply and the fight against energy poverty. the investments and energy efficiency measures provided for in the energy efficiency directive will help to improve living standards by reducing fuel poverty, increasing productivity, improving safety and improving people's health.
in writing. ‒ the energy efficiency directive is key directive for the eu which recognises the importance of energy saving, strengthening environmental and climate protection, facilitating economic competitiveness, promoting job creation, providing security of energy supplies and last but not least tackling energy poverty. however, in order to fully implement the directive, the eu should promote better and smart management of energy consumption. to achieve this, the eu should conduct information campaigns as well as provide access to financial schemes to households, regional and local authorities. another important step will be further improvement of the transparency and clarity of energy bills by establishing high-level principles for bills at eu level so that key information is available to consumers in a comparable format in order to help them adjust their consumption.
in writing. – i deeply regret the result of the uk referendum but the democratic decision of the people of the uk should be respected. however, we’ve seen politics at its worst. the initial champion of this referendum, pm cameron, leaves a legacy of a divided uk and a divided eu. to overcome the uncertainty we face, the departure process should begin immediately by triggering article 50 teu. this is the least mr cameron owes to the citizens – to demonstrate a bit of responsibility, to honour both his commitment made prior to the referendum and the will of the majority of the voters. the uk will remain a key friend and partner to the eu. the nature of our future relationship has yet to be determined and it will inevitably require a huge amount of time and effort. it is therefore essential that this process starts rapidly so that we can focus on other immediate challenges. the apparent disappointment of citizens with the eu, being exploited by the populists, is rooted in years of conservative, austerity-only policies. europe now needs a new vision. european social democrats will offer an alternative – an agenda of progressive reforms to restore social europe, economic growth and social justice.
in writing. - this was a referendum on britain's future in the european union, not the future of the european union! from here on, the united kingdom is on its way to beginning the process of withdrawal. the real question for us is how to protect the interests of our fellow citizens on the island. the referendum was a gamble on cameron's part to save his own political career. critics of the european union didn't really want britain to leave. unfortunately, they didn't realize it until it was too late. now we are witnessing a refusal to consume this political "victory". in practice, the united kingdom voted to take back the right to take away and restrict the rights of european citizens, by returning those powers to its own institutions. bulgarian citizens, especially young people, will be put in a situation where they will not have the security and guarantees that the european union provides.
in writing. mr president, although only introduced 3 years ago, the youth employment initiative and the 'youth guarantee' schemes have shown good results in providing support for young people in their transition from education to the labour market. however, the level of youth unemployment in the eu remains too high, reaching up to 25% in some places, and the trend towards using traineeships as an alternative means of low-paid exploitation continues. i believe that more european funding is needed to support initiatives to combat youth unemployment and additional programmes aimed at finding solutions to reduce unemployment among the older age group: 25-35 years. in addition, i believe we also need programmes to encourage the development of 21st century skills while young people are in secondary education and to provide better regulation of internship and practical training opportunities.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to support the report on a new regulation on energy labelling of household appliances and products. the labelling policy has so far resulted in energy savings equivalent to the annual energy consumption of italy, one of the large countries of the european union. unfortunately, the existing labelling scale has exhausted its possibilities, as almost 90% of household appliances now fall at the top of the scale, marked a with a sequence of +. i welcome the return to the human-readable seven-letter scale (a to g) with seven different colors (dark green to red). the scale-up mechanism provided for in the regulation for existing products will allow for the transition to the new higher energy efficiency requirements for domestically produced and imported household appliances in the union within a period of five years. i fully support the criteria for transforming the rocks with the advancement of technology and the saturation of the market with energy-efficient products of the highest class. the enhanced requirements for consumer information and advertising material, as well as the enhanced role of market surveillance authorities in complying with the requirements of the new regulation, will contribute to the high targets for reducing energy consumption in our households.
madam president, it is not customary to have days like these, which are critical, when national public spaces are interested in europe. the result of the british referendum is a wake-up call for 27 member states. for the united kingdom, it is a bullet wound, and the resulting wounds are already visible. those who promised more sovereignty, who built their argument on the theme of a technocratic europe, are now proving to be pale democrats, powerless and irresponsible towards the fate of their country. but as the council made clear in its conclusions, europe faces many other challenges - migration, economic and security - that we cannot afford to delay. to remain united means to work towards building the union of citizens, a stronger democratic union. we cannot do this without addressing the concerns of citizens on a daily basis. two remarks on brexit: firstly, the red line which has already been drawn by the presidents of the european institutions must be respected, whatever agreement is reached with the united kingdom: no reductions in the conditions for access to the single market, especially the four freedoms, including and in particular the free movement of persons. equal treatment is a necessary basis for a genuine union of citizens. secondly, it is up to us pro-europeans, to us democrats, to turn this crisis into an opportunity and, in this context, to beware of the reflex of falling back on old methods. yes, we need leadership, yes, we have fundamentals, but let's not create divisions amongst ourselves where there are none. the heart of europe beats in every citizen who believes in europe and in peace, democracy and tolerance, whether in berlin or paris, sofia or bucharest.
mr. juncker, we've heard some of your favorite people in the center of the room talk. the bell has been ringing in europe for a long time, but you were pretending to be deaf. well, the british put the megaphone in front of the brexit bell and now you know that this european formula is really over. we need reform, not burying our heads in the sand like ostriches. don't waste your time with pointless and petty bureaucratic hurdles. where's your plan of action? the problem is that the european union is a collection of some rich countries and some very poor countries, corrupt at the same time. england and bulgaria are on both sides of the funnel. some got more, some gave more. the result is zero, since both nations are desperate and have no interest in the free movement of goods and capital. the european union is a bureaucratic machine that doesn't like change. the bulgarian political elite was corrupt before the membership in europe, but now it is ten times more corrupt and richer with the huge funds that you poured into bulgaria and they were massively robbed by a few people and the oligarchy. europe has only one road, mr juncker, change or death.
in writing. the result of the referendum in the united kingdom on 23 june clearly showed that european policies and the way the european union is governed are wrong, and it is this that prompted the british people to make the democratic decision to leave the european union. what happened was not the fault of cameron, boris johnson or the 17 million britons. the only person to blame for this is the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, who will go down in history as the man who, through his arrogance and his inability to listen to the problems of the people and to respect the interests of individual member states, led to the loss of one of the most important political and economic states in the eu. in the face of the many global crises and problems, juncker not only failed to unite and unify the eu, but with his actions and his explicit advocacy of the inter-party interests of the european people's party, the party of socialists and democrats and the liberal alliance, he started a disintegration and confrontation between the member states. european leaders must reform the eu to return to the idea of a europe of nations, respect and protect the interests of all member states and ensure full respect for the principle of subsidiarity, otherwise not just brexit but also frexit, spahnzit and so on will follow.
in writing. on 23 june, british citizens voted to leave the eu, ending 43 years of membership. meanwhile, the leaders of the brexit campaign have decided to back off and show they have no plan of action. this, however, is not surprising. in fact, the debate on the pros and cons of the uk's membership of the union was entirely replaced by the topic of migration. the islanders who voted to leave the eu were actually expressing their views on the lack of an adequate european migration policy. let us not forget that a few years ago the bulgarian citizens were also the target of a targeted campaign by the same opponents of the european project. the result of the referendum also clearly defined the generational dividing line. the majority of young people voted against brexit. but their votes did not prevail. we live in democratic societies and the decision of the british people must be respected. the lesson is that european integration can only succeed if we listen more to the fears of our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation made by ms gabrielle on visa-free travel for citizens of the union and for citizens of peru. but i would like to express my deep regret that the commission has once again taken the liberty of not including parliament in the joint committee. after all, we, the representatives in parliament, are elected by the citizens to defend their views and desires. i would like to put a rhetorical question to mr juncker and the commission he chairs: mr juncker, if we had not supported ms gabriel's recommendation today, what value would the eu-peru agreement signed on 14 march 2016 have had?!?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation on behalf of the european parliament to conclude an agreement between the european union and the republic of peru on the short-stay visa waiver providing for visa-free travel to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period, covering all categories of persons travelling for any purpose other than the pursuit of a gainful activity. this agreement deepens the relationship between the contracting parties and is an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural ties, intensifying political dialogue on key issues, including those related to human rights and fundamental freedoms. the main objective of enhanced cooperation is to partner with peru in the fight against organised crime and, in particular, trafficking in human beings and drugs. the agreement will contribute to strengthening trade and investment relations and will also have an impact on the tourism sector, which is the second most important for the peruvian economy. at the same time, it contains a clear commitment to readmit illegal immigrants and thus represents an additional tool to combat illegal migration.
in writing. – peru is an important political and economic partner for the eu in latin america. the agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas is an important step in deepening eu relations with peru, which are built on political dialogue, trade and development cooperation and cover a wide range of bilateral, regional and multilateral issues. тhe visa waiver will deepen trade links among businesses and will facilitate investment. in particular, visa liberalisation is likely to further increase tourist flows between the eu and peru. nevertheless, there are concerns that visa liberalisation will increase the level of irregular migration and human and drug trafficking. in order to prevent this from happening, the eu should further enhance and strengthen cooperation with peru in the fight against irregular migration and organised crime. in that regard, the eu should welcome efforts made by the peruvian government in conducting an information campaign that explains to peruvian citizens the key provisions of the visa waiver agreement. i supported the eu-peru agreement on the short-stay visa waiver because it will deepen political and economic relations between the eu and peru.
in writing. ‒ i worked on the opinion submitted by the committee on culture and education, but in my committee and in the main committee, my amendments and those of my colleagues from the european conservatives and reformists group were not accepted. it was very important to us to distinguish between refugees, legal immigrants and asylum seekers, and that was not accepted by other groups. such a misunderstanding could lead to very serious errors in the current crisis situation. the way out of this situation is difficult, and this report does not help anything, i might even say that it can only harm. that's why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on refugees and their social inclusion and integration in the labour market. its adoption is of particular importance to ensure the long-term planning of measures to deal with the migration crisis. it should be borne in mind that it is first and foremost a humanitarian crisis, generated by the destabilisation of the eu's neighbouring countries. all of this has long-term implications for the eu and requires long-term solutions that guarantee social peace and security and meet the expectations of european citizens. vocational integration can help to integrate immigrants into society. their skills, knowledge and qualifications could generate a positive return in the countries that host them. a clear definition of the concept of refugee is of particular importance in order to improve safe and legal migration channels and to ensure full respect for existing laws and fundamental european rights and values. it is of particular importance that adequate control measures are taken to limit irregular migration flows. i strongly support a zero tolerance policy towards radical behaviour and criminal behaviour, including the dissemination and advocacy of radical ideologies. proven guilty in such cases should lead to expulsion, regardless of the status of the persons concerned.
in writing. – i supported the resolution because refugees’ social inclusion and integration into the labour market should not be further delayed. we should find a common approach and strengthen our efforts to integrate the refugees as soon as possible after their arrival in the eu. that will be highly beneficial for their swift adaptation to the host county and will help their personal development. at the same time integrating refugees into the labour market will generate growth and foster europe’s competitiveness. i am convinced that the best means to achieve this are through education, training, cultural and sport activities and effective and easily accessible recognition procedures to ensure that refugees will get proper recognition of their prior training and the qualifications they have obtained. furthermore, they should receive proper pedagogical support, guidance and language courses. it is essential to use the full potential of formal and informal education, training and lifelong learning in order to integrate refugees and asylum seekers fully and in a sustainable way. our commitment to achieving the swift integration and social inclusion of refugees and asylum seekers must find its reflection in the development of different measures for combating racism, xenophobia and extremism in order to build a more inclusive society, based on our cultural diversity.
in writing. the new european agenda on migration has set a framework to overcome the difficulties of managing the large influx of people arriving. however, we must also think about effective measures to integrate refugees and asylum seekers, both in the labour market and in our societies. i believe that for this to happen, the programme should include more operational measures relating to education and training. the first barrier to successful integration is the overcoming of language isolation. a quick learning and understanding of the host country's language and culture is paramount to the success of this process. education is the key to rapid social inclusion and labour market integration. this is why we need to ensure robust and transparent procedures for the recognition of qualifications acquired outside the eu. it is worth noting here that among the refugees arriving in europe in 2015, a significant number are children who come from conflict zones and have not had access to any form of education for a long period of time. it is also important to say what the alternative would be: the creation of ghettos and of encapsulated communities that are incapable of fitting into the host environment.
in writing. – the integration of refugees into the labour force is beneficial for the eu, as asylum seekers would thus have more opportunity to be financially independent, hence requiring less or no social benefits. furthermore, making refugees part of the labour market will be favourable for national budgets and economic growth. therefore i voted in favour of the report by brando benifei addressing the challenges of integrating refugees into the labour market and into education. however, i have concerns about the proposed lowering of the waiting period for work permits from nine to six months.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the 2010 european parliament recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility, as i believe that the application of conditionality in trade agreements will not immediately reduce human rights violations, but rather will have negative consequences for trade and business. the measures we take should not hurt trade and business, because it is poverty and low living standards that are often the main cause of the poor human rights situation in the country. i believe that trade can promote respect for human rights in the long run and it is extremely important to require a commitment from our trading partners that they will improve the human rights situation. achieving a good level of respect for human rights is a long-term problem and that is why it is important to have sufficiently good mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating countries where there are concerns that human rights are being violated.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the implementation of parliament's 2010 recommendations on social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate responsibility. i believe that all member states should incorporate an approach to mainstreaming gender equality in all their policies. the benefits of efforts to improve social and environmental issues in eu trade diplomacy are already being seen. all of this increases trade and foreign direct investment, which affects the wealth of poorer countries. and greater prosperity also leads to better protection of human rights, social rights and workers' rights, as well as environmental protection, which can in no way be neglected. a stricter policy for monitoring the implementation of human rights clauses and the factors affecting trade in ecological goods needs to be established. examples include anti-dumping policies in the renewable energy sector, intellectual property regimes, restrictive financing programmes and national environmental policies that create demand for such goods.
in writing. ‒ today, the eu is the richest economy in the world, but this will change over time. the centre of wealth generation is shifting eastwards towards the asia-pacific region and demographic developments will also have a negative impact on the eu's position on the world trade scene. for this reason, i believe that the eu, and in particular each member state, should develop a strategy for sustainable economic development. alongside this strategy, the eu needs to provide more information to its citizens about ttip, vitc and tisa, because it is believed that they will not help the economic growth of the union, but on the contrary, will help corporations to prevail over nation states. there are serious concerns that the signing of these contracts will increase the unemployment rate. all this is addressed in the report by ms tiziana begin on the new forward-looking and innovative future strategy for trade and investment, and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the future trade and investment strategy because i believe it is necessary if the eu is to be a factor on the international trade scene. the contribution of external trade is of vital importance to the european economy, which provides growth and creates new jobs. this requires a transparent trade policy that is based on clear and consistent rules, addresses the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises and provides new opportunities for citizens and businesses. in my view, trade policy should be seen as an integral part of the eu's external policy. trade and investment agreements are of great importance both for the eu economy and for the internal market. they must be transparent and guarantee eu civil, labour and social standards, as well as supporting the objectives of the '2030 agenda' for sustainable development and environmental protection.
in writing. – illegal border crossing in 2016 is almost two times more than the total previous five years. through trade policy to promote human rights, social rights, environmental rights, democracy and rule of law.
in writing. ‒ illegal trafficking in human beings is a crime that is prosecuted by both international and national law. today, however, millions of people are trafficked both within and outside the european union. this traffic directly affects us, as we are the external border of the union and the first place where illegal immigrants cross. my group and i are strongly in favour of fighting human trafficking, but we cannot accept some of the proposals in the report, such as the proposal to create 'legal' and safe routes for migrants flooding into the european union. for the reasons i have mentioned, i voted 'abstention' on the report on combating trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations.
in writing. i supported this report because of the important message it conveys, recognising human trafficking as a serious transnational crime. the report recognises the importance of a coherent approach to the internal and external dimension of eu policies to combat trafficking in human beings. i support the fact that it distinguishes between the concepts of trafficking in human beings and smuggling of migrants, as the two concepts require different legal and political responses. i believe it is of the utmost importance to pay particular attention to the fight against trafficking in human beings in the eu's political dialogue with third countries, as well as through cooperation programmes and in multilateral and regional fora. i have always stressed the need for coherence between internal and external policies, which implies the development of partnerships with third countries in the field of combating trafficking in human beings, in line with the union's fundamental values. i welcome the fact that the report recognises and supports the work of the eu coordinator for combating trafficking in human beings and calls for joint action between the eu, member states, third countries and international actors to establish more coherent and effective cooperation to establish systems to identify, protect and assist victims of trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on combating trafficking in human beings in the eu's external relations. trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious forms of human rights violations. this serious crime must be addressed in a holistic manner, with an emphasis not only on sexual exploitation but also on forced labour, organ trafficking, forced begging, forced marriage, child soldiers and trafficking of babies. the eu must direct its foreign policy instruments to break this lucrative and immoral model and increase protection for victims of crime. according to the united nations office on drugs and crime, 70% of the victims are women and girls, mostly from eastern europe, 53% of trafficking is for sexual exploitation and 40% of trafficking is for forced labour. i believe that financial investigations, which track, seize and confiscate property derived from criminal activity, and anti-money laundering actions play a crucial role in the fight against this crime.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the fight against trafficking in human beings in the european union's external relations. worldwide, some 36 million people are trapped in modern forms of slavery. it is also a fact that 10,000 children have disappeared without a trace in europe since the start of the refugee crisis, allegedly as victims of traffickers. in the light of these data, the eu has no choice but to take the lead by committing to measures that directly attack the traffic networks and their root causes. this is a global problem and the eu must therefore increase its financial and technical assistance and improve europol's effectiveness.
in writing. – the european union is faced with one of the greatest challenges in its history in the face of the refugee crisis. from the refugees who are illegally smuggled in europe by criminal organisations, through the men that work years without payment to the women forced into prostitution, these activities devaluate all basic human rights and permanently damage victims and their families. the coordination between member states on all aspects of human trafficking should be enhanced. i voted in favour of the report of ms lochbihler on ‘modern day slavery’, which aims to fight money laundering in the eu and hold accountable eu companies that tolerate forced labour in their factories of supply chains.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i would like to offer my most sincere thanks to the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. we look forward to engaging further so we can reflect as we prepare to submit our proposal for the midterm revision in the coming months. we have an obligation to complete this work by the end of the year and we will do all we can on our side to meet that obligation. it is an opportunity to examine the implementation of the multiannual financial framework (mff) and, as the rapporteurs have said, this is not a usual period in the history of the european union. since 2008 we have gone from one crisis to another. we have had a financial crisis, an economic crisis in the eurozone, hitting greece the hardest, the migration crisis, terrorism and now, very recently, we have experienced the earthquake of the referendum in the united kingdom. in this context, what we have in our hands is, for the first time in the history of the european union, a smaller budget than the one we had before. needs have gone up and resources are tighter. this puts us in a position that requires collaboration between parliament, the commission and our member states to make the best out of the budget: to answer the questions that both the rapporteurs have framed about how to help our economies and our people, especially the young people who are jobless in europe; how to make sure that we have the capacity to address the flows of people coming, seeking rescue or out of hopelessness; and how to make sure that the external challenges of europe are buffered appropriately with the use of our budget. these are not easy questions and i can say that there are areas where there is very strong agreement and there are areas where there would be a lot of work to do. where we are in agreement is that we have to expand the flexibility of the budget. i say that every time i have the chance. i thank parliament for what you have done to negotiate flexibility in the mff, which is what has saved us in recent years, and i am sure will do so again in the years ahead. we also have to simplify our rules, to use the revision of the financial regulation to make it easier for money to get to where it is designated to go. we have, broadly speaking, an agreement on the fact that we have to sharpen the link between money and priorities and make sure that we address top priorities with top euros. there are also very difficult questions and i am not going to shy away from those. the expectations in council and in parliament in terms of what we would deliver are quite diverse. we have to work on finding a way to bridge this divergence. we also know that the monti group is due to produce its report on own resources, and that is going to be an incredibly sensitive – and yet critical – issue for the future of the european union. from the commission side, i can tell you that we are working with all we have to make the budget deliver more, bigger and better results for our people, to stretch every euro to the maximum and to use our great creativity and flexibilities to do more with the money we have. i want to address a particular point that ms thomas brought up – the issue of legitimacy and accountability to parliament in respect of the instruments which help us to do more, like the turkey facility, but which fall outside the oversight of parliament. i believe we need to address that: to give parliament a role, to bring parliament into the decision making, and to be sure we do the best with the money we have because we will have parliament’s eyes looking over everything we fund from the sacrifice of our taxpayers. our commitment to bridging these difficult issues and to bridging the divide is genuine and we count on your being on our side as we go along this difficult road in the months to come.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the coordination of social security schemes in the member states. madam president, madam vice-president, i would like to emphasise the only paragraph of the opinion of the committee on employment and social policy which begins with underlines: the resources of the european social fund and the fund for european aid to the most deprived are not sufficient to counter growing inequalities and poverty, with the worst consequences of the labour market crisis affecting the young and the long-term unemployed, as well as the unprecedented influx of refugees; calls on the commission to propose an increase in resources for social policies and to propose an increase in the share of the european social fund in the budget for cohesion policy. and the final emphasis in our view: calls on the member states to ensure that all the necessary resources are provided to overcome the extreme challenges facing the european union today, given that over 13% of the gross domestic product of the member states was spent on bailing out banks, while the european union budget remains less than 1% of this product.
madam president, madam vice-president, it seems that in recent years, and especially in the last decade, the european union has been facing its most serious series of crises. first the financial crisis, then the greek debt crisis, then the migration crisis, and now brexit. but every crisis is an opportunity that we have to seize, and i shouldn't stress how difficult it is, because people don't expect us to. but the review of the mff is one of the necessary reforms. and if i had to use the language of programmers, i would say that our software is outdated and we need an urgent update. and when it comes to hundreds of billions of euros, this task must be central to us. i'd like to see three successes in the next few years. the first is a real reform of the own income. the monty group to provide us with workable solutions, to choose the best of them and to guarantee the security of the budget. the second is genuine synergies, whether it is operational programmes or 'horizon 2020', matching funding to make it easier to deliver results. finally, simplification means less bureaucracy, less administration to get projects done faster. finally, just as climbers make their way up the mountain before they plant the flag, so we must do the same.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen commissioners, colleagues, the schengen area is one of the greatest achievements of european integration, but it is currently facing a huge challenge that threatens its very existence. the current migration crisis and the continuing threat of terrorism highlight the need to review and reform the current instruments and mechanisms for the functioning of schengen. at the end of june, the european council called for broader efforts to address migration in a comprehensive way, including through strengthening and better managing borders. in this context, i believe that the proposal for a european border and coast guard takes account of the need to ensure the necessary control of the external borders, ensuring levels of security within them and at the same time preserving the possibility of free movement of persons within the territory of the union. the modernisation of frontex and its transformation into a fully-fledged european border and coast guard will enable us to manage our borders in an integrated way and will strengthen solidarity between member states. in conclusion, mr president, both bulgaria and romania should be part of... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the european union's efforts must be directed towards protecting our common borders. one of the main reasons for brexit was the uncontrolled flow of immigrants and refugees. more effort and resources should be directed to the outer borders for equipment, fencing and manpower. bulgaria, greece, and italy are like a human shield for the wave of refugees from the middle east and turkey. turkey remains our unreliable ally, which means it is not an ally. bulgaria spent hundreds of millions of dollars of its state budget to build a fence on its border with turkey. the poorest member of the european family, bulgaria, needs additional funds to complete security installations and to buy modern equipment, motor vehicles and more. with more money from the european commission, we can increase the manpower in border areas and even joint military-technical guard forces from the european union on europe's external borders with other countries.
in writing. – recent political developments in europe have proven that our continent, our union, our countries need visionary and responsible leadership. recent events have proven that peaceful living at home is not a given and that remaining secure should be a top priority. in the world of digital committed leadership means timely leadership. i welcome the adoption of the nis directive, but it would have been even more welcome much earlier. indeed, time has only increased the need for it, as around 80% of european companies have experienced at least one cybersecurity incident over the last year. a flourishing economy is a prerequisite for responsible leadership, i am glad that the latest adjustments to the text favour small- or micro-entrepreneurs. as the backbone of our economy, we need to encourage them to further explore and expand the digital economic model. a responsible leadership also means stronger together and intense collaboration. the nis directive establishes a ‘cooperation group’ between member states for the purpose of supporting and facilitating strategic cooperation and developing trust and confidence. high coordination and optimal use of the new mechanisms are key for fostering a secure, innovative and tech-savvy europe. this is the europe i choose to live in.
when we discuss the problem of synergy between the european structural funds and the 'horizon 2020' programme, we are actually discussing the problem of coordination and interaction of european union policies within the european union. this is a discussion that defines the common need for synergies and complementarities between the instruments for investment, for growth and employment, for innovation and development. but when we talk about such synergies, we cannot only mean synergies at the level of the european commission and complementarities at the level of programming. we must take into account the synergies at the level of programme implementation, the synergies at the level of territory, the synergies at the level of complementarity of individual projects. synergies that could lead to real results, such as increased employment and jobs in the european union. growth and jobs - that's our goal.
madam president, just as in the fairy tales for young children we know that good always wins, only when people are united, the same motto should be here for horizon 2020 and for cross-financing between the different financial instruments, namely: all hands on board, together we achieve more. what do i mean by that? with a budget of around €80 billion until 2020, 'horizon 2020' has huge potential to be combined with the cohesion policy funds worth around €350 billion. it turns out that with the available resources, with enough flexibility, we can fund at least one good idea for every european, or almost as many. but there is a catch: very often we do not know how to combine funding, the processes are too complex administratively, and we often do not know the needs of individual beneficiaries. as regards the european budget, a healthy mix of funding is needed: a balance between grants and financial instruments. they're both sides of the same coin. whether we will be able to combine some of the 500 operational programmes from the 28 member states with almost 26 managing authorities in horizon remains to be seen. i'm sure there are many more good examples.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. chairman, thank you, mr. prime minister, you have the difficult task of presiding over the european union after the british referendum - an event that will have long-term consequences for us all. and while there are debates, discussions about the future direction of the economic, social and institutional policies of the european union, there must be concrete steps that deliver results and that, at the same time, show the european union's concern for people. the biggest problem, or one of the biggest problems, is youth unemployment. the european socialists therefore developed a european youth plan. it has four steps. it requires much more money - up to 20 billion euros - for the youth guarantee. it calls for 'erasmus+' for all young people in europe. it requires a european cultural voucher for every young person. and it requires child support in the european union. if you take concrete steps in the presidency to implement this plan through the revision of the multiannual financial framework, that will be a very good sign for europe.
in writing. ‒ since 2010, the eu and azerbaijan have been negotiating a new and improved contractual relationship in line with the objectives of the eastern partnership, in which azerbaijan participates. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the state aid rules to the measures in question. in the meantime, the eu-azerbaijan visa facilitation and readmission agreements entered into force on 1 september 2014. azerbaijan is also an important partner for the eu in the field of energy. however, the importance of the eu-azerbaijan relationship goes beyond energy security and the relevance of this partnership should be seen in the context of all aspects of the cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership framework. in recent months, parliament has expressed concern about the increasing difficulties faced by civil society actors and organisations. the rule of law, human rights and democracy remain the main principles on which the eu's relations with third countries should be based. in this context, the framework agreement in question aims to promote cooperation in the sectors and to foster relations between people which should be of benefit to society.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i support the recommendation on azerbaijan's participation in union programmes, as the country is an important partner for the eu in the field of energy. given that the importance of the eu-azerbaijan relationship is not limited to energy security, the appropriateness of this partnership should be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation envisaged in the eastern partnership framework. the recommendation is a step forward for learners and researchers in the country and aims to promote cooperation and exchange between the eu and azerbaijan in general for the benefit of society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan because i believe that as part of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) the country should be able to benefit from the wide range of programmes aimed at providing support in the process of reform, modernisation and transition in the eu's neighbouring countries. it is also important that azerbaijan is an important energy and foreign trade partner for the eu. azerbaijan has a developing economy and a relatively low standard of living, similar to that of most post-socialist countries. after the collapse of the soviet union, azerbaijan went through numerous economic difficulties and heavy reforms. the partnership with the eu should boost democratisation, respect for human rights, socio-economic reforms, improvement of the business and investment climate and, in particular, strengthening the fight against corruption. i expect the agreement to have a positive impact on poverty and improve the quality of life.
in writing. – azerbaijan is a strategic partner of the eu. the country is on one hand part of the eastern partnership initiative and on the other an important energy partner for the eu. it is important to note that azerbaijan is strongly committed to development of cooperation with the eu. azerbaijan relies on the eu’s aid and commitment to fully consolidate its democracy and complete all structural reforms of its economy. furthermore, azerbaijan is interested in development of trade, social, financial, scientific, technological and cultural cooperation. therefore, i supported the participation of azerbaijan in the eu programmes. helping azerbaijan in both its democratic transition and its tough economic reforms is above all in the interest of the eu. we should always support countries which want to embark on the path of reforms.
in writing. ‒ at the july plenary session in strasbourg, we adopted by a large majority the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan. the objective of the protocol is to establish financial and technical rules under which azerbaijan will participate in certain eu programmes open to third countries. this project is part of the european neighbourhood policy, which allows the opening of certain union programmes to its neighbours. this approach is also one of the elements of the eastern partnership to enhance bilateral cooperation. armenia, georgia, moldova and ukraine have already concluded similar protocols. azerbaijan is a strategically important energy partner for both the european union and bulgaria. it is in our interest that cooperation between the eu and azerbaijan develops and deepens. my colleagues and i hope that this strategy will be adopted and supported by all member state governments.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to transfer the surplus from the financial year 2015 to 2016. this surplus consists mainly of a positive result from own resources, interest on late payments and fines, and exchange rate differences. this will result in a reduction in member states' contributions of eur 1,349 billion, which is a percentage of gnp. the report also calls for the surplus to be reused from the eu budget to finance its needs and expects the issue to be addressed as part of the mid-term review of the multiannual financial framework. this leads to a lower contribution for bulgaria as well, which is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on measures to ensure a high common level of network and information security in the eu, as it is necessary to increase the security of the internet and of the private networks and information systems that underpin the functioning of our societies and economies. achieving this objective requires member states to improve cooperation among themselves and requires critical infrastructure operators and key service providers such as e-commerce platforms, social networks and others, including public administrations to take appropriate steps to manage security risks and to report serious incidents to national authorities. currently, the capacity and readiness levels of the different member states are very different, and given that networks and information systems are interconnected, the overall network and information security of the eu is weakened by those member states whose level of protection is insufficient. in order to ensure a level playing field and to close the legislative gaps, the statutory obligations imposed by this directive are necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this file because i support the initiative to reintroduce the original a-g scale as eu energy labels. there is an inherent lack of consumer awareness and understanding of a+, a++ or a+++. with the need to revise the current labels, i am convinced that the best solution is to return the previous categories of labelling to a-g, at least temporarily. there's ample evidence that the system needs to change.
in writing. – it is more than clear that energy efficiency labelling is useful and needed. this is so because it will allow consumers to obtain accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy efficiency and consumption of energy-related products. energy efficiency labelling will allow consumers to make friendly purchasing decisions that are both good for the environment and save money. this consequently means that in the long term energy efficiency labelling will reduce the level of the eu’s energy dependency. importantly, in order to achieve all of these goals member states should ensure that the introduction and rescaling of labels is accompanied by educational and promotional information campaigns on energy labelling. these campaigns should be supported and coordinated by the commission.
madam president, i support the report on the european border and coast guard as i believe that the transformation of frontex into a strong agency with a clear mandate will ensure the necessary support for member states to protect and manage the external borders of the european union, to deploy staff and equipment where necessary, to assist and coordinate the return of those who have been refused asylum. in addition, i would like to thank the colleagues who supported the amendments tabled by myself and the other bulgarian representatives in the committee on civil liberties, which guarantee equal treatment for bulgaria, romania and croatia. it is precisely because bulgaria is not yet part of the schengen area, but is a state that guards the external borders of the union, for bulgarian citizens, and for the security of europe, it is important that our country can use all the possibilities of support from the european border and coast guard agency.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european border and coast guard and repealing regulation (ec) no 2007/2004, regulation (ec) no 863/2007 and council decision 2005/267/ec. this proposal transforms the existing frontex agency into a new and more competent agency called the european border and coast guard. the new agency will support member states where there are clear weaknesses and gaps in the protection of the eu's external borders, help manage the flows of migrants and the return of those refugees who have been denied asylum, and overall ensure internal security in the union. separately, the european border and coast guard will provide resources, equipment and expertise to the member states representing the union's external borders in order to be able to react quickly in case of weakness or breaches at our external borders.
in writing. i voted in favour of the agreement reached on the creation of the european border and coast guard corps, which responds to the need to strengthen the union's external borders to better protect the internal mobility and security of european citizens. the extension of the mandate of the agency to support member states and the conditions for deployment of the rapid response team are to be welcomed. these are crucial elements for frontline states such as bulgaria, which, although still not part of schengen, has done its part to protect the union's external borders and internal security. implementation must be as rapid as possible. the agency will not solve all the problems, but it must be the tool of a new impetus to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past and to have a genuine common border management. adequate resources, including for emergency response, and adequate training of border and coastguards are needed. this training must be continuous, european and at the highest level, using all existing tools.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report's proposal to create a european border and coast guard, as it is an important step to tackle the growing migration crisis and the threat of new terrorist acts on eu territory. the decision to establish a european border and coast guard agency is important because it will guarantee the protection of the external borders and the free and safe movement within the eu's internal borders. i support the mechanism of 'shared responsibility' and collective action between member states and the eu, which is an essential contribution to increasing solidarity and accountability of national governments and european institutions and an important prerequisite for the protection of the eu's external borders and the management of migration flows. the mechanism will support frontline countries that are exposed to strong migratory pressures. countries that border the eu but are not part of schengen will be able to rely on rapid and adequate assistance to deal with sudden migration crises at their borders through the deployment of coastguards or maritime guards. the esdp is a pan-european system that will ensure the respect of the fundamental human rights of asylum seekers and assist member states in returning migrants who have entered the eu illegally to their countries of origin, without interfering with the decisions taken by national states.
in writing. ‒ on 6 july, my colleagues in the european parliament and i voted 483 to 181 in favour and 48 abstentions in favour of the creation of the european border and coast guard agency. although it passed under the shadow of 'brexit', it is a very important and positive vote for bulgaria and the eu. the new agency will succeed frontex and will have 1,500 professionals from eu member states. bulgaria will start its participation with 40 staff. the agency receives a modest budget, but it will grow in the future. if this corps had existed earlier, the most acute phases of the refugee crisis would not have happened. perhaps when we look back in 15 or 20 years, we will see that the european army had its beginnings in this very modest new unit. instead of constantly arguing about whether we need more europe, let's just take the steps that european citizens clearly support.
in writing. – in times of challenges such as the current refugee crisis, it is essential to improve the protection of our external borders, vital to preserve the internal non-border area. a rise of euro-scepticism triggered by the immigration policy is observed. thus we need to show our citizens that we work for them and make them feel secure and trust the european parliament and commission. external borders should be managed. as a native of a country which represents an external eu border i firmly support the report of mr pabriks on the need for modern equipment and the exchange of timely information, at times of migration problems and terrorism threats.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the creation of the european border and coast guard, because i believe that this new structure will contribute to more security at the european external borders, such as bulgaria. with the establishment of the agency, the responsibility for border protection will no longer be solely that of frontline parties, but will be the fruit of solidarity and cooperation between all member states. the establishment of a permanent pool of border guards and experts to be deployed rapidly in the event of strong migratory pressure at the external borders will ensure that bulgaria is not left alone and can rely on the support of european partners when necessary. the possibility of acquiring technical equipment will also facilitate and speed up the agency's response to emergencies. it is of the utmost importance that the return operations of migrants will be facilitated, which will inevitably reduce the pressure on europe, especially from economic migrants who are not entitled to international protection. last but not least, for the first time we are talking about a european coastguard, which is extremely important for the protection of our black sea border. the european border and coast guard is a step towards a more secure europe that will be able to respond to modern challenges. and a secure europe means a secure bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ although i am against the growth of european bureaucracy in the form of the creation of new european agencies, i decided to support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency, as it will play an important role in the protection of the eu's external maritime borders. the new agency's function is to improve cooperation, information exchange and coordination between member states and the various european agencies active in the field of maritime safety. to deal with the influx of immigrants, the most important thing is to protect our external borders, and that is why i believe that this new agency can play an important role in this direction.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency, because, alongside the european border and coast guard and the european maritime safety agency, it is the third new agency in the commission's proposed package aimed at strengthening the management of the union's external green and maritime borders. as i have said many times, i believe that the protection of the eu's external borders should be a priority in the fight against illegal immigration.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal to amend council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency. i welcome the addition of a member to the mandate of the european fisheries control agency on cooperation in the field of coast guard functions. the european maritime safety agency, the european fisheries control agency and the european border and coast guard agency should be able to work together by coordinating their maritime operations, pooling their operational capacity and exchanging information in the field of surveillance, security and maritime safety. better cooperation between these three european agencies will also support national authorities in their coast guard functions. the european fisheries control agency contributes to the control of fisheries-related operations, but it cannot currently operate in other maritime areas. the amendment proposal will improve the capacity to respond to threats and risks in the territorial waters of the european union, in particular by improving cooperation not only between european agencies but also between all civilian and military representatives of institutions concerned with the safety and ecology of eu waters.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the secretariat of the olaf supervisory board because i believe it is important to strengthen its independence. a stronger secretariat means more independence for the supervisory board. i consider this to be an important step which will help the fraud office to function better without imposing an additional financial burden on the member states and the institutions.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013 as regards the secretariat of the supervisory board of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the long-term building of financial stability in the eu is precisely about the fair allocation and use of funds. the secretariat of the olaf supervisory board should strengthen its independence. this will ensure the efficient functioning of this service and thus significantly reduce any financial disruption in the european union. european funds need open relationships, transparent financial accounts and accurate accountability of their leaders to demonstrate financial stability. these instruments will only be able to be implemented through appropriate regulation, which will ensure the independence and proper functioning of olaf. the european anti-fraud office should be based on the public financial interest. i therefore believe that the independence and immunity of this office, as well as the prevention of conflicts of interest, will only be successfully guaranteed if they are clearly expressed in the new regulation and in future administrative cooperation agreements.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory board secretariat, thereby ensuring a more efficient functioning of the supervisory board. the secretariat of the supervisory board will be provided by the commission and not by olaf, and the budgetary appropriations of the supervisory board will be transferred from the olaf budget line to those of the commission. the proposed change will have no financial impact on the european budget. i support the report.
in writing. ‒ this report on the preparation for the post-election review of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework: recommendations by parliament before the commission proposal, is, in my view and that of my group, contrary to the interests of european citizens. the governing body is calling for a bigger european budget to be spent on finding a solution to youth unemployment and the immigration crisis. i don't think raising the budget is going to solve the problem. on the contrary, i believe that the commission needs to radically change its policies and increase their effectiveness. that is why i voted against this report and against the recommendations of parliament.
in writing. ‒ the current mff, which was agreed in 2013, reflects the priorities of the union at the time of its adoption, and in the years ahead the eu will face challenges that were not foreseen at the time of the mff approval. the eu's funding priorities have multiplied, while the mff has remained unchanged. the 2016 review of the mff should take into account the major challenges and new policy initiatives (migration crisis, internal security, european fund for strategic investments (efsi) funding, a persistently high level of unemployment, especially among young people, etc.) that were not foreseen at the time of the adoption of the mff, as well as their impact on the budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'abstention' on the report by mr kofoed and mr toehrer, because despite its positive elements, there are some with which i cannot agree. i am referring in particular to the call for the termination of free trade agreements with non-cooperative tax jurisdictions and for binding union legislation on patent boxes. i also disagree with the emphasis on the alleged superiority of the commission's mandate to negotiate international tax agreements to replace existing bilateral agreements.
in writing. ‒ my group and i are working with other policies and instruments to maximise the impact of investments and create 'added value'. in addition, i believe that there is not enough funding under horizon 2020 and i believe that since the funds there have already been reduced to create the efsi, this should not continue. however, my group does not support the unlocking of grants from the european structural and investment fund (esif) for the purpose of funding 'horizon 2020' or for the potential creation of a european innovation council. i voted for the resolution because it was in line with the ideas of my group and i signed it.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy 2014-2020 is the eu's main instrument for investment in the real economy. the report underlines that the efsi should complement the esi funds and other eu programmes such as horizon 2020 as well as the usual activities of the european investment bank. full coherence and synergies between all eu instruments must be ensured to achieve the common strategic objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. overlap or conflict between them should be avoided.
the result of the referendum in the united kingdom has clearly shown that european citizens see the european union as something far removed from their daily problems and concerns, and we cannot turn a blind eye to this fact. the european union needs a new look, one that is more geared to the real needs of people. brexit is not the beginning of the end of the european project, as eurosceptics like to say, and the results of the latest eurobarometer clearly show this. our citizens want more action at european level, not the other way around. i supported the resolution because i believe that the commission's work programme for 2017 must inevitably reflect this new reality. the last ten years have been marked by policies of severe economic restraint. social inequalities have reached their peak and people have lost faith that europe can provide them with a brighter future. i believe that the key to achieving sustainable growth and raising living standards is a more social europe. this means, first and foremost, fighting child crime, providing quality and affordable education for all.
in writing. ‒ the report finds that europe faces a number of common and global challenges. to be successful, the european union cannot be reduced to an economic project. the eu could cope with the prolonged economic crisis by accelerating sustainable investment, implementing coherent policies and developing better policies. the report also expresses the belief that the eu can play a global leadership role by unleashing the full potential of its single market, promoting entrepreneurship and investment in innovation. the single market needs further integration, in particular in the digital area, in order to create a level playing field for consumers and smes. the report calls on the commission to propose more measures to promote research and innovation. the banking union must be completed.
in writing. ‒ whaling is strictly prohibited and any way of circumventing this prohibition is unacceptable. whaling for research may be acceptable, but when you're talking about nearly 4,000 whales in 12 years, it's not research. personally, i think it's a tourist fishery. given that whaling is accompanied by tremendous cruelty to these mammals, i strongly support the ban and call on japan to stop whaling.
in writing. – as you well know, the eu has one of the world’s highest environmental standards. the union is actively working to safeguard natural resources like water, air, natural habitats and the species they support. a good example of this is the natura 2000 programme which represents a network of 26 000 protected natural areas, covering almost 20% of the eu’s land mass, where sustainable human activities can coexist with rare and vulnerable species and habitats. in this regard we should express our disillusionment and concern with japan’s decision to resume whaling in the 2015-16 fishing season. japan is a strategic and very important partner of the eu, but its decision to resume whaling is a breach of the international moratorium on all commercial whaling established by international whaling commission (iwc) in 1982. therefore, i call on japan to stop its whaling activities that do not correspond with iwc’s moratorium.
in writing. - i voted against this file. although there are some good arguments for supporting belarus and further engagement through economic and political dialogue and structured assistance, the situation in belarus is not as progressive as indicated in the commission's report. in terms of economic indicators, belarus is considered eligible for eib financing. however, there is ample evidence that the authorities have not improved their standards in the area of human rights and political freedoms. in my opinion, only with the upcoming elections, which are to be held in september 2016, will things become clear.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this file because i do not agree with the arguments that the mrel should witness legislative-liberalising action. we must not forget that this is the banking sector, which needs a strict regulatory framework, because banks rely on legislative certainty when it comes to setting minimum capital requirements and eligible liabilities. especially in times of political uncertainty and security crisis, there is an ever-increasing demand and need for financial stabilisers and minimum capital funds.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. president, ladies and gentlemen, and madam mogherini, i congratulate you on your efforts and on the document you have produced, but i believe that the eu's global strategy for foreign and security policy does not sufficiently address the challenges we are facing at the moment. it is my belief that security policy is and should remain the sole competence of either the north atlantic treaty or the nation states. in other words, the stronger the services at national level, the higher the level of security in europe. that's why there's the north atlantic treaty, which has its own defense capabilities, intelligence capabilities, and whose job it is to protect our external borders and our common interests. i come from a country that knows very well what the threats are from russia to the east and from turkey to the south. and that's why i can tell you that the better choice is the north atlantic treaty. i remind you that turkey is considered a strategic partner, but it has reached out to russia and it is no secret that it is supporting the "islamic state". so i think the security system should be within the national framework of the north atlantic treaty.
mr president, madam vice-president, first of all, thank you for your thorough and persistent work. we know that this strategy is the result of intensive consultations. the terrorist attacks and conflicts of recent times have really shown us that we need a new overall strategy for the union's foreign and security policy more than ever. i would like to highlight two elements and mention two challenges. the two elements: first, cooperation with regional organizations. whether in our neighbourhood or in relations with african countries, regional organisations and cooperation are tools to better achieve our goals of peace and security. in many cases, if we invest in strengthening these organisations and fostering regional integration, we can reduce the asymmetry in our relations and make them into genuine win-win partnerships. i would also like to note the desire to cooperate more closely with the union for the mediterranean on security matters. that's good! the member states must follow. the second positive element is that the risk of a junction between several areas of insecurity and instability has been taken into account. as i have stressed on several occasions, we must anticipate this type of dynamic also linked to hybrid security threats, particularly between west africa, the sahel and the horn of africa, or between the sahel and central africa. today i see two challenges: firstly, it is about credibility in action. what is our credibility? it is to trigger all our instruments of prevention and sanctioning in time, to have defence capabilities consistent with our objectives, to respect ourselves the rules on which relations between our member states and third countries are based and, finally, to speak with one voice. this brings me to my final point, the full and complete adherence of the member states to this strategy. without this accession, on paper but also in practice, i fear that the union will not be able to guarantee the common interests, and the member states will bear the responsibility for this. i simply hope that they will hear your messages and that finally consistency and accountability will lead us to visibility and efficiency.
in writing. today, the eu faces a number of interrelated internal and external challenges. what we're seeing is a very complex international situation. while international terrorism is on the rise, human rights and euro-atlantic values are being systematically trampled underfoot by authoritarian regimes and national populism. in this context, the eu's new global strategy aims to build a lasting internal unity among member states, which in turn will strengthen the eu's role on the international stage. but for the eu's voice to begin to be heard on the international stage, the union must start work on a common european defence, which will become a common european pillar in the nato structure, as soon as possible. in the long term, this will be of great importance for the eu's common foreign policy and for successfully addressing geopolitical threats and geographical and strategic challenges.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, i would like to once again commend you for your personal commitment to the middle east peace process since the beginning of your mandate. despite the difficulties, it is a new lease of life in the union's commitment to this subject, particularly in view of the regional and global difficulties and challenges. the quartet has reported. i would also like to make four comments on this occasion. firstly, i would like to welcome the approach adopted and the correctness of the recommendations made. they constitute the necessary and concrete basis for establishing a minimum climate of confidence and appeasement with clear objectives for a real resumption of negotiations between israel and the palestinian authorities. it is not enough for both sides to affirm their commitment to peace; now we need concrete action to support the process. my second point concerns the role of the other countries in the region. we know that this role can be a double-edged sword, but on certain specific issues, which are conducive to creating conditions for the resumption of negotiations, the quartet could perhaps reflect and make recommendations. thirdly, i believe that there is also a clear signal to be given to young people. on both sides, there is a youth growing up in insecurity amid incitement to violence and hatred. here the european union can give young people real opportunities to understand that there are other options, other means and a different future for their country. all projects that promote the mobility of these young people contribute - i hope - to the goal of peace. finally, as the european union, we understand the pain caused to each new victim of this conflict. we are trying to understand the israeli and palestinian points of view and demands. i think that the parties to the conflict, through follow-up, could also show us that they understand our concerns - the concerns of the european union and the neighbouring countries - because even though we know that the resolution of the conflict will not lead to a solution to all the problems of the mediterranean region, we are also aware that a number of blockages and the lack of integration of the region are linked to this conflict. so we are fully committed to the continuation of this delicate process.
mr president, i am happy to see that mr lambrinidis is here with us. as outlined in the report, 2015 has been a year of extraordinary challenges for the european union and the international community at large. we also heard many prescriptions about how to tackle better such challenges. i believe it is high time we stopped talking about the strong eu voice and start to deliver it. and this is not addressing you but much more the member states, who should support you in all your efforts. we must reiterate clearly and firmly that all human rights agreed under the eu charter are universal and indivisible and religious denomination or interpretation should not be used as a pretext not to respect these rights. we should not have double standards and should not close our eyes to breaches of human rights due to specific economic ties, exports of military machinery or geopolitical interests, but also our humanitarian and development aid should be used for improving human rights, especially in sub-saharan africa and in the middle east. in this respect we have agreed on the text on the recommendations to the council report which will discuss it. it is the next agenda item of today to recall the obligation of the general assembly when electing the membership of the un human rights council to take into account candidates’ respect for the promotion of and protection of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. we should also continue to advocate for zero tolerance, as you say, for the death penalty and torture, and also to further work towards their universal abolition. one critical point missing is to clearly address the human rights situation in turkey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam mogherini, i have read your report and to my great surprise, i have not seen any mention of turkey in the context of the human rights violations and the state of democracy in 2015. as anyone who is interested in the subject probably knows, the state of democracy in the republic of turkey is catastrophic. democracy in the republic of turkey is crushed by a dictatorial regime. you can ask those who protested in taksim square. you can ask those who are fighting for the rights of the kurdish community or those who are suffering from the civil war there. and the absence of any mention of the republic of turkey seems to me extremely hypocritical in the context of the deal being made between the european commission and that country with the aim of supposedly preventing the entry of illegal migrants. because this deal is actually deeply hypocritical and deeply wrong, and things should be said for what they are. otherwise, it's a sign of double standards and hypocrisy.
rapporteur. – mr president, ms mogherini, last year we had an own-initiative report on the role of the united european union in the united nations system, which was a change from our usual procedure, but this year we are coming back to the traditional form of our annual recommendation to the council. the objective of these recommendations is to feed into the preparation of the eu priorities for the next un general assembly session each autumn, which the council normally adopts in july. we agreed on 22 compromises on the basis of 220 amendments and our opinion of the david committee. i would like to thank all the colleagues involved, the shadow rapporteurs, the political advisers and the members of the eu-un working group. the renewed un general assembly recommendations report gives us a chance annually to voice the opinion of the european parliament in times of great challenges. this is even more important in the light of the conflict on the eu’s doorstep, europe’s growing exposure to hybrid warfare, cyber-terrorism, foreign fighters, unprecedented waves of migrants, and the blurring of the distinction between external and internal threats. it also empowers our institution to present its opinion via the council to the un general assembly, not only on matters of migration, peace and security, and the fight against terrorism as mentioned above, but also on issues such as non-proliferation and disarmament, human rights, democracy and the rule of law, development, climate change, and the eu and reform of the un system. parliament’s recommendations to the council in the report are, among others, to continue to support multilateral attempts to find lasting political and peaceful solutions to ongoing conflicts in the middle east and africa; to support the ongoing comprehensive efforts to strengthen us-un peace operations and the organisation’s ability to address conflicts; to reiterate its unequivocal condemnation of terrorism and its full support for actions aimed at the defeat and eradication of terrorist organisations such as the so-called isis/daesh; to support un efforts to prevent non-state actors and terrorist groups from developing, manufacturing, acquiring or transferring weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons; to promote greater support for the work of the united nations refugee agency in implementing its international mandate to protect refugees; to reiterate clearly and firmly that all human rights agreed under the eu charter are universal, indivisible and independent and that respect for these rights must be enforced; to continue to advocate for freedom of religion or belief; to call for the repeal of laws criminalising blasphemy or apostasy; to serve as protection against the persecution of religious minorities or non-believers; to work towards the implementation of sustainable development goals on the 2030 agenda for sustainable development; to ensure that the eu remains at the forefront of the fight against climate change and to cooperate further with the un in this area; to ensure swift implementation of the position taken at the 2015 un climate change conference in paris; to support a comprehensive reform of the un security council on the basis of a broad consensus; to promote the revitalisation of the work of the general assembly and improve the coordination and coherence of action by the un institutions. the council will adopt the conclusions on 18 july for the general assembly opening in september. therefore, if approved in plenary, parliament’s recommendations will be forwarded to the council for official consideration in the council’s priorities for the next un general assembly meeting. i hope that next year we will be a bit earlier, because there are only 10 days now for the council to consider parliament’s opinion. as you know, there was a postponement because of considerations related to the uk referendum.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kovatchev, for his significant efforts in the preparation of this balanced report. it is indeed more than important for the european union to point out a list of common priorities for the upcoming united nations general assembly. as many member states are divided on numerous global issues, this recommendation would be a great opportunity to show to the world community that the european union can speak in one single voice. in light of this, i am very pleased that the committee on foreign affairs succeeded to include in the recommendations some proposals that are significant to our values. it has clearly highlighted the role of the european union in human rights, climate change, development and the active promotion of the rule of law and international humanitarian law. of course, the unmistakable condemnation of terrorism and the full support for actions aimed at the defeat and eradication of terrorist organisations, which possess a clear threat to regional and international security, should be also our priority. however, i would like to draw your attention to the course of the identification and appointment of the best candidate for the post of secretary general of the un and the possibility of the eu to support fair distribution based on geographical and gender balance. in conclusion, it is important to point out that the recommendation expresses our continued support for the establishment of clear human rights performance based criteria for membership of the united nations human rights council, and for a comprehensive reform of the united nations security council in order to better reflect the new global reality and to more effectively meet present and future security challenges.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank all our colleagues for the good cooperation, in particular my shadow rapporteurs for these recommendations and for the very good atmosphere we had working together, and i hope – and i am sure – that we will continue to work on this matter. madam mogherini, i would also like to thank you for all your efforts and, as you say, we should work for a stronger and safer european union. however, we need to do this in such a way that our citizens, our european citizens, feel that indeed europe is stronger and safer, and this is unfortunately not always the case. two points, because the far right is always speculating and we need to give an answer to the false allegation that somebody in the european union is pressing the united kingdom or france to give up their seat at the security council for an eu seat. that is not the case – we never said this, and in our recommendations, the goal to have an eu seat on an enlarged and reformed un security council is only mentioned in the future and in the long term. this is not replacing france or united kingdom, and again we see how people on the far right, which are now not here, have presented a falsification of information. my next point – and i cannot not mention this – is on the election of the next secretary general. we hope that the informal rotation will be kept and europe will have the next european secretary general; from the gender point of view, this is the time to have a woman as the next secretary general. thank you very much again, and i am expecting that adopted recommendations will be taken into consideration at the council for the next general assembly.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, the draft law on the protection of trade secrets that you recently approved clearly shows that the definition of whistleblower can be too broad and vague. the legislation will allow corporations to designate any information they would not like to be publicly available as a trade secret. i think that as we work on new legislation, we need to focus on avoiding the unintended incentive of corporate espionage and whistleblowing by anonymous individuals. in addition, we need to have certain criteria to distinguish between protecting reliable sources of information from uninformed sources of information. otherwise, the result would be chaos and a lack of any political and legal clarity. at the same time, in order to ensure appropriate safeguards to stimulate public scrutiny and to shed light on crime, it should be ensured that initiators are not turned into criminals. the issue of the legal basis for such a proposal is complex and i look forward to seeing an end result that can be worked on to achieve the necessary balance for business and whistleblowers.
mr president, implementing the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is highly important, and we should admit that there is still a lot to be done in order to guarantee equal access to inclusive and quality education and training for all people with disabilities and to give them real opportunities for personal and professional development. to achieve this, systematic and close consultations between representative organizations of persons with disabilities, policy-makers, businesses and other relevant stakeholders must be initiated. furthermore, the establishment, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of all policies related to education, training, culture, sport and youth should be conducted while taking into account the outcomes of those consultations. like that, we can ensure that the real needs and requests of people with disabilities will be addressed. further efforts are needed in order to facilitate and enhance the participation of people with special needs in different mobility programmes. that will benefit their self-government, self-development and self-assessment and give them life-changing experience and broaden their social network.
in writing. people with disabilities face difficulties in accessing quality healthcare much more often than other people. this further exacerbates existing inequalities and has negative consequences for their ability to live independently, in community and on an equal footing with others. i therefore believe it is important that the eu structural funds, if necessary together with national measures, are used as a tool to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and to promote accessibility to healthcare, including electronic services, applications and devices. patients with disabilities should be able to benefit from the rights provided for in the cross-border healthcare directive in the same way as other patients. in many cases, the treatment abroad is associated with additional costs for them, which are not always reimbursed by the country of insurance. in practice, this has a deterrent effect. in addition, information on treatment options should be provided in accessible formats for people with disabilities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs kovachev's report contains many positive elements, but i voted against it because it contains paragraphs which are unacceptable to me and my political group and cannot be supported. in particular, i believe that calls like this for the repeal of legislation in un member states that violates the rights of so-called lgbt people and societies, violates the sovereignty of states. i am opposed to the long-term objective of the european union's membership of the un security council, as set out in the report. the european union is not a state and it is not a federal state. i do not think we should go in that direction and there should be no more european union at the expense of national sovereignty. we are witnessing a divided europe which, if it remained as it is, would not be able to represent and defend the interests of all the member states equally. i believe that such a move would lead to a further division of the union and create potential tensions between member states.
madam president, i supported the report by mrs stevens because there were many different opinions from different committees in the european parliament. i myself worked as a shadow speaker on the committee on culture and education. in this respect, i would like to stress that there is still a lot of work to be done to achieve the full integration and inclusion of people with disabilities in society. but it definitely starts in school with the right to education, access to free movement, non-discrimination and access to justice. i strongly hope that the commission and the member states will work together to speed up the ratification of the marrakesh treaty. i highly appreciate the rapporteur's work and his approach to respecting the principle of subsidiarity, and i believe that a good balance has been struck between the competences of the member states, those of the european union and the calls made in the report.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i support the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, as i believe it is of paramount importance that we do everything possible with our policies to ensure equal treatment, independence and a dignified existence for all eu citizens. this is even more true for people with disabilities, who unfortunately continue to face serious obstacles to the exercise of their rights and freedoms. full inclusion of people with disabilities is important for society as a whole. i therefore welcome the conclusions and recommendations of the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. i support the need for a comprehensive and horizontal review of european union legislation and funding programmes, integrating disability issues into all eu legislative policies and strategies. it also requires ensuring a permanent structured dialogue with organisations representing people with disabilities and introducing requirements for innovative solutions to provide accessible public services.
in writing. i supported the resolution on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities because i believe that the eu must live up to its own standards in respecting and guaranteeing basic human rights. there are close to 80 million persons with disabilities in the union who, as equal citizens, have the right to equal treatment, an independent lifestyle and full participation in society. let us remember that they do not have equal access to education and training that adequately address their needs and enable them to develop their full potential. the right to inclusive quality education must be guaranteed to all. i am also strongly in favour of the inclusion of disability-specific indicators in the europe 2020 strategy. erasmus+ for example provides additional financial support for the mobility of students with disabilities. but this has to be embedded in all aspects of the programme. the european youth strategy should also focus on the needs of young people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, i have supported the report on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which covers all aspects of the problem and contains the necessary recommendations to the institutions and member states to make substantial progress in improving the situation of almost 80 million european citizens with disabilities. basic legislation requires the union to combat all forms of discrimination based on disability and gives it the power to adopt legislative acts to address such discrimination. moreover, our principles should go beyond the elimination of discrimination. our actions must be directed towards creating an inclusive society in which people with special abilities can achieve as equals with other citizens. the rapid introduction of digital and information technologies provides a great opportunity to make it easier for people with disabilities to exploit their specific capacities, to exercise their rights and freedoms more fully, and to lead independent and active lives. i agree with the recommendation that more attention should be paid to women and girls with disabilities who are at greater risk in our societies. as a leading human rights defender, the eu is in a position to make tangible progress for this group of decent citizens.
in writing. - i voted against this file because this proposal concerns caffeine in energy drinks, which is somewhat misleading. it deals with all products containing caffeine, and it actually has a much wider scope. moreover, energy drinks account for only 1% and calories account for only 3% of the calories consumed in the average diet of eu citizens, and most of the caffeine consumed by adolescents actually comes from sources other than energy drinks. i agree with the objection that more attention should be paid to the sugar and nutrient profile in children and adolescents. however, i do not agree that this objection is the proper way, nor the place for this discussion. this issue is part of a much broader and important discussion on nutrition, obesity and consumer awareness and education.
in writing. ‒ people's health must be a key priority in the policies of all eu member states. in this connection, i believe that manufacturers of energy and sugary drinks should not advertise on their products the benefits of the caffeine they contain, as well as the presence of other harmful food ingredients. statistics show that 68 percent of teenagers and 18 percent of children regularly consume energy drinks, and 25 percent of these teenagers drink three or more of them in one sitting. this shows that not only stricter mechanisms for the distribution of these products to young people are needed, but also specific conclusions from the european food safety authority on the acceptable intake levels and the messages on the effects on the body. the information on labels, as part of the marketing strategy for the product, is key to the confidence of consumers, who in turn rely on a prior assessment by the competent control units of the quality and legitimacy of the product. the consumer's fundamental right to be free from manipulation of the composition of products and their direct effects on the human body is a presumption that is missing and should be addressed in the voluntary code on the marketing and labelling of energy drinks.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is committed to deepening trade and investment with a view to creating a level playing field. despite many calls to protect privacy rights and improve the security situation, i'm still skeptical about the topic. we're witnessing the weaknesses of the rules and regulations that are being put in place. we need to work to improve the situation in data protection legislation and to make sure that the transactions made are executed correctly and are not influenced by control and interests of third parties. with the advancement of technology and digitization, it's even easier to misuse personal data today than it was 20 years ago. it would be irresponsible to allow for free transfers of personal data without taking the necessary security measures. we need to make sure that european standards are not sacrificed in the name of a deal.
in writing. two eu countries have so far imposed a minimum hourly rate of their standard on foreign carriers. this is germany from the beginning of 2015 and france from 1 july 2016. in practice, this means that on the territory of germany, drivers of transit buses and coaches will be paid eur 8,50 per hour by their employers, regardless of whether their companies are established in another country. for bulgarian carriers, these are nothing but protectionist measures that will lead to a large administrative and organisational burden, cause a dramatic increase in their costs and ultimately exclude them from these markets. i am glad that the european parliament, with its joint efforts, has succeeded in drawing the commission's attention to the need to find an answer to this delicate and complex issue between social dumping, protectionist measures and workers' rights. this is how parliamentary scrutiny of the european commission is delivering concrete results! the commission is now in the process of completing the infringement procedure against france and germany and doing everything it can to prevent the fragmentation of the eu's internal market.
commissioner, the european union's heating and cooling strategy is fundamental to the impact of the community's efforts in the field of carbon reduction, renewable energy, energy independence, environmental protection and sustainable development. the paper provides an extremely thorough analysis of energy consumption for heating and cooling and provides excellent guidance to national governments on environmental and energy efficiency policies. the benefits of adopting and implementing this strategy will be felt by most households across the european union, as well as by almost every business, industry and institution that uses a building stock for its activities. the keyword that largely unifies the conclusions of the strategy is synergy. on the one hand, synergies between renewable energy sources, which must be increased in relation to the use of fossil fuels, which account for 75% of primary heating and cooling energy. on the other hand, there is a synergy between the urgent need for production and the mass adoption of energy-saving appliances, the renovation of the building stock and the application of innovation in the field of district heating and industry, which are in fact the largest consumers of energy from renewable sources. through the implementation of the strategy, the european union will support the development of small hydropower plants, biomass processing, solar, wind, geothermal power plants, biofuels, rain, tidal and wave energy extraction and other innovative methods for recreational energy sources.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, i am presenting today to the european parliament the discussed report, approved by the committee on regional policy, on one of the two objectives of cohesion policy european territorial cooperation or the well-known interreg programmes. the report covers several key topics: good practices, including innovative contribution to the europe 2020 strategy and territorial cohesion, simplification of the implementation of territorial programmes and future development recommendations. in this context, i would like to point out that cross-border and transnational cooperation has over the years produced good practices in the areas of better connectivity and accessibility, in the transfer of knowledge and innovation, in addressing environmental challenges, in increasing administrative capacity in health, education, employment and labour mobility, and in creating new partnerships. at the same time, the report states that the interreg budget of around eur 10 billion represents only two per cent and eight tenths of the cohesion policy budget and unfortunately does not respond to the major challenges facing european territorial cooperation. the report notes with concern the late adoption of the interreg programmes and urges the commission and the member states to mobilise their efforts for their successful implementation. the commission, the member states and the managing authorities are invited to establish structured and appropriately organised monitoring systems and evaluation plans with a view to better evaluating and disseminating knowledge of the achievements of interreg. the report encourages the use of interreg programmes to respond to the challenges of the refugee crisis and the exchange of good practices between local and regional authorities in border areas, including third countries, through macro-regional strategies. the report also notes the important role that interreg programmes play in enhancing the innovation potential of regions by promoting synergies between smart specialisation strategies and the development of innovation networks. the need to establish joint research programmes, joint research infrastructure, partnerships and cooperation networks is emphasised. calls for the interaction between horizon 2020, the european fund for strategic investments and the european structural investment funds to be aimed at increasing the quantity, quality and impact of investment in research and innovation; financial instruments should be an integral part of interreg programmes by complementing grants. the report also notes the role of the european territorial cooperation groups in promoting european territorial cooperation. calls on the commission and the member states to make full use of the possibilities offered by interreg to facilitate cross-border labour mobility by adapting, if necessary, the administrative and social regulatory framework; interreg programmes should, in line with agreed priorities and complemented by other appropriate funding, support the challenges related to migration and promote effective integration policies. in this context, the report highlights the possibilities of european territorial cooperation and its potential to be developed in future territorial cooperation programmes and to underpin future cohesion policy based on the needs of the specific territory.
mr. chairman, commissioner, being born in the balkans is not always a bad thing. the harsh reality there allows you to see the most rational solution, however difficult and complex a question or a problem may seem to you. i would like to say that i am very sorry to hear that there are voices in this chamber calling for a reduction in cohesion policy. my dear colleagues, cohesion policy is not a cake that we can cut out whenever we want. behind it is the european budget, behind it is the multiannual financial framework, behind it are national budgets, tailored to finance hundreds of projects. hundreds of regions are counting on us. do we want to shoot ourselves in the foot? i want to ask these same voices: what would be left if we restricted this policy? stories, my colleagues, only stories. and people have heard enough of them. i'm sure this room has heard many things, but this time the voice that will prevail is the voice of reason. there are certainly issues that we should raise, but they are not about cohesion policy. they're about excessive bureaucracy or why 70% of horizon goes to six countries. i'm sure this time the voice of reason will prevail.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, thank you for your comments on the report on territorial cooperation. i thank all the colleagues who have expressed their views during the debate in the regi committee, where we have worked very hard on this report. i would like to emphasise once again that european territorial cooperation has proven its effectiveness and potential beyond the traditional framework of regional policy: in areas such as the single market, digital technologies, employment, mobility, energy, research, why not specialisation, smart specialisation in individual regions; in the field of education, culture, health, the environment. i am convinced that european territorial cooperation has the potential to develop in the future. in future cohesion policy after 2020, it can be the basis for a specialisation according to the needs of the territory, the potential of the specific territory and on the basis of strategic planning for the development of the territory, whether it is a cross-border or a territory in which we have a specific specialisation. territorial cooperation can give further impetus to the general idea of the european union. european territorial cooperation has potential for future development and i am convinced that such debates will lead to the future development of the idea of territorial cooperation.
in writing. the eu trust fund for africa is an important instrument for strengthening stability in africa and addressing the root causes of irregular and forced migration. the continuing flow of migration clearly shows that the migration crisis cannot be contained without a lasting stabilisation of the eu's neighbouring regions. africa has the world's fastest growing population, and its relative share is expected to reach 25% of the world's population by 2050. the european union must continue to support the security and development of the countries in the region. member states need to do more to meet their formal commitments, but it is also important to increase the flexibility of the eu budget to allow for more emergency response. despite its great potential, europe cannot tackle the root causes of migration problems on its own. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary support to the member states in the implementation of the union's external action programmes. international law applies equally around the world, and other high- and middle-income countries could do more by increasing their financial support.
a question asked by raising a blue card. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, do you not think that this meeting should have paid more attention to the role of the dictatorial regime in turkey in the migrant crisis? and don't you think that we should have turned back more and asked about sanctions on turkey, which, just as russia annexed part of ukraine, for the second time annexed territory from a sovereign state? i would remind you of the annexation of cyprus and the current invasion of syria by turkish armed forces.
thank you madam president. by all accounts, this year’s g20 summit was dominated by a new and overriding awareness. the rising anger of people at the ravages that present-day neoliberal globalisation has caused in their lives. media reports have claimed that australian prime minister turnbull actually called on leaders to ‘civilise capitalism.’ some of this awareness has found its way in the final communiqué, which states: ‘quality employment is at the centre of the g20’s domestic and global agenda, together with reducing inequalities and promoting inclusive labour force participation.’ these precisely are the big issues (in capital letters) that president junker and his commission must directly tackle with the utmost urgency and full priority, or see the european project disintegrate under the tidal wave of widespread and completely justified popular protest.
in writing. the g20 summit took place in an extremely sensitive environment for the world and europe. it is impressive that the topics discussed at the forum were of direct relevance to the european union and this clearly shows the range of challenges we all face. the need for more sustainable and high-quality economic growth, punitive measures against tax havens in the world, the need to invest in new technologies and take action against global warming were discussed, alongside the fight against terrorism and the international refugee crisis. in this context, i believe that the g20 was a great opportunity for the european union to reaffirm the need for comprehensive global action to share responsibility for resolving the refugee and migration crisis and addressing its root causes. and we should not overlook the fact that the final document of the meeting stated that the results of the referendum in the uk add uncertainty to the global economy. the forum also highlighted the important role played by bilateral and regional trade agreements and i believe that the european union should work towards the early ratification of an agreement to facilitate and liberalise international trade.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it highlights the role of multi-level governance in the strategy-making process, the role of the eu urban development programme in creating synergies and strong links for efficient use of resources, and the role of monitoring and evaluation as an important part of smart specialisation strategies in the 2014-2020 programming period.
in writing. i supported the report on cohesion policy and the r & d and innovation strategies for the smart specialisation initiative (ris3) because i believe that technology and innovation are a key prerequisite for economic growth for both the regions and the eu. cohesion policy provides instruments to promote research and innovation development by using local and regional assets, which can bridge the gaps in innovation progress between regions. i believe that through regional focus, strategic and effective planning and use of public research and innovation investments will support not only well developed areas but also less developed and rural areas, will give impetus to strengthening employment and growth at local level and will help to strengthen administrative capacity at local and regional level.
in writing. ‒ research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation are particularly important in times when the eu needs to create smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in order to tackle financial and social crises across the union. i supported the resolution and it is important to note that for the 2014-2020 programming period, member states are required, for the first time, to develop national and/or regional smart specialisation strategies by involving national and regional managing authorities and stakeholders such as higher education institutions, industry and social partners, in an entrepreneurial discovery process. therefore, research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation should be designed by a strong governance system and should stimulate private investment in research, technology and development.
in writing. i gave my support to this resolution calling on eu countries to improve the implementation and monitoring of 'intelligent specialisation strategies' (ris3 or s3) because i believe that s3 can fill some of the gaps in cohesion policy. although eu cohesion policy is a highly important mechanism whose main objective should be to eliminate existing socioeconomic disparities between the different european regions, a large part of the european structural and investment funds has failed to be attracted by rural and other less developed regions, which experience difficulties in the preparation and implementation of regional strategies. in this context, i firmly support the call of this resolution to develop the administrative capacity of disadvantaged regions. it is through improvements in administrative capacity that rural and less developed regions, such as those in my country bulgaria, will be able to identify their strengths and priority areas for development in a way that maximises the potential of their population, creating new skills, knowledge, innovation and jobs.
in writing. ‒ with increasingly fierce competition worldwide, it is crucial for the eu to continue to improve its innovation capacity. ris3 contribute to the efficient use of eu funds and unlock the potential of all regions, help the eu to tackle innovation gaps and increase its competitiveness. the report emphasises the need for a regional approach to implementing ris3 and calls for the eu and member states to periodically monitor the implementation of the strategies. ris3 strategies are a valuable tool for bridging innovation gaps and for boosting jobs and growth in europe.
in writing. – i voted in favour because one of my priorities is to encourage innovation at all levels. i believe that ris3 aims to create knowledge- based growth not only in well-developed areas, but also in less-developed and rural regions. the report sends a support signal from the eu to ris3 strategies, calls for them to be improved and also to for lessons to be learned from the strategies already initiated in order to achieve the best results in the forthcoming years in this area.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by ms iskra mikhailova on european territorial cooperation best practices and innovative measures, as this policy is part of the european union's cohesion policy, which is of paramount importance for bulgaria and its economic and social development. with an allocation of eur 10.1 billion for the 2014-2020 programming period, european territorial development aims to support overall cooperation between national, regional and local actors, with a focus on cross-border cooperation and support for border regions. mrs mikhailova's report is important for two main reasons. firstly, it calls for a substantial budget increase in the next programming period to increase investment in border regions, as they are particularly affected by the current refugee crisis. secondly, the report calls for the implementation of territorial cooperation programmes to be simplified in order to make them more accessible to the various actors and thus increase the impact of the invested funds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on european territorial cooperation best practices and innovative measures, as i consider the etc to be an important instrument of cohesion policy, whose purpose is to solve problems that go beyond administrative boundaries and require common solutions. over the period 2014-2020, more than eur 10 billion has been allocated to cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation programmes. the appropriations under these instruments have contributed to better regional connectivity, mobility and access to services, knowledge and innovation transfer, enhancing the competitiveness of smes and strengthening regional identity. the commission has also been able to demonstrate that it is able to meet the challenges of the environment, better manage risks and respond to disasters, and to strengthen institutional capacity building and social capital, strengthen cross-border network structures and create new partnerships. i support the call on the commission and the member states to work towards preserving the ets as an important and positive instrument for the european integration process, with the ets being given a more important role in the context of cohesion policy after 2020.
in writing. ‒ i supported the text because european territorial cooperation (etc) is one of the most important goals of cohesion policy for 2014-2020. the etc makes a significant contribution to strengthening the eu’s objective of territorial cohesion through integrating diverse sectoral policies on territorial scale. in this regard, it could be argued that the etc has a significant european added value. it contributes to peace, stability, economic development and regional integration not only in europe but also in the world (in the framework of enlargement and neighbourhood policy). therefore, etc’s potential should be further developed beyond regional policy in areas such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility and energy, research, education, culture, health and environment. the commission and member states should consider preserving etc as an important instrument, allocating it a more distinct role within cohesion policy post-2020 and significantly increasing its budget.
in writing. european territorial cooperation is one of the two important objectives of cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020, although only 2.8% of the cohesion policy budget is earmarked for this purpose. i supported mrs mikhailova's report, which sought to support territorial cooperation between member states, also taking into account that 38% of the european population lives in border areas. the overall objective of cross-border cooperation is to reduce the impact of social borders in order to reduce regional disparities and remaining barriers to investment. i believe that better cooperation between bulgaria and the neighbouring member states would contribute to improving the economic, social, cultural and territorial development not only of the balkan region but also of the eu as a whole. the importance of cross-border labour markets, which are highly dynamic in terms of job creation, is also growing. member states should make use of interreg programmes to facilitate cross-border labour mobility and to encourage, where necessary, the adaptation of the administrative and social regulatory framework, as well as to enhance dialogue at all levels of government. european territorial cooperation needs to be improved, as a small number of european citizens still benefit from all the opportunities offered by the eu's internal market and freedom of movement.
in writing. – i supported this resolution as for 25 years the etc has been a key instrument to achieve territorial cohesion through support of a number of programmes and projects with strong european added value. it has made significant progress in a number of key sectors – connectivity, innovation and knowledge, to mention a few. the report in question takes the measure of these developments.
in writing. ‒ i supported the interim report on the inquiry into emissions in the automotive sector, which was drawn up by the committee of inquiry dealing with the case. i support the fact that the report is based on technical information and data and does not contain any political findings or statements. i agree that full cooperation between the european institutions and national governments is needed to achieve better results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because there is no doubt that the committee of inquiry should have full support from the conference of presidents and the bureau, the commission and the governments, parliaments and competent authorities of member states. all support is needed for committee’s actions and initiatives leading to the accomplishment of the mandate given by parliament in its decision of 17 december 2015.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the eu-china agreement in connection with the accession of croatia. this technical report reflects the need to adapt the agreement following the accession of croatia to the eu and the enlargement of the customs union. this update concerns the reduction of the european customs duties for certain types of products and the increase of the import quota for other agricultural products.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to conclude an agreement with the people's republic of china on the modification of concessions in the list of the republic of croatia in the process of its accession to the european union, as it is in line with eu practice in previous enlargements and in line with the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt). i support the compensatory adjustments for china envisaged by the commission in relation to losses from the withdrawal of concessions by croatia, as they are proportionate and in line with previous practices within the wto.
in writing. ‒ with croatia’s accession on 1 july 2013, the eu enlarged its customs union. the european parliament gave its consent to the compensatory agreement with the people’s republic of china and i supported the resolution. the agreement will respect the trading rights of the people’s republic of china and on the other hand is a sign of the eu’s attachment to the wto’s multilateral rules-based trading regime. the compensatory agreement will enable croatia to benefit fully from trade relations between the eu and the people’s republic of china (eu and china now trade well over eur 1 billion a day). last but not least, the compensatory agreement could serve as a basis and a proof that china meets its wto obligations and trades.
in writing. – as a member of parliament’s delegation for relations with china, i am following closely the relationship between the european union and china. the eu is china’s largest trade partner and china is the eu’s second largest partner. with the accession of the republic of croatia, the european union enlarged its customs union. consequently, the european union was required under world trade organisation (wto) rules to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights related to the tariff schedule of croatia in order to eventually agree on a compensatory adjustment. that is why i am fully supporting the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation to conclude an agreement between the eu and uruguay on the modification of the concessions in the list of the republic of croatia in the process of its accession to the european union. the report is technical and reflects the need to adapt existing agreements following the enlargement of the european customs union following the accession of the republic of croatia to the eu.
in writing. ‒ with croatia’s accession on 1 july 2013, the eu enlarged its customs union. in the light of this, the european parliament should give its consent to the compensatory agreement with the eastern republic of uruguay. the agreement will respect the trading rights of the eastern republic of uruguay and, at the same time, it is a sign of the eu’s attachment to the wto multilateral rules-based trading regime. it is important to note that the eu will incorporate in its schedule for the customs territory of the eu 28 uruguay’s specific high-quality beef quota (eu regulation 481/2012, 48 200 tons). last but not least, the compensatory agreement will enable croatia to benefit fully from trade relations between the eu and the eastern republic of uruguay (worth eur 1.603 million in eu exports to uruguay and eur 1.131 million in eu imports from uruguay).
in writing. – with the accession of the republic of croatia, the eu enlarged its customs union and was therefore required under wto rules (article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994) to enter into negotiations to the eastern republic of uruguay regarding the tariff schedule of croatia in order to eventually agree on a compensatory adjustment as the eu’s external tariff regime results in an increase of tariffs. i voted in favour as trade is one of the key policies for the eu and for the benefit of eu citizens. furthermore, this proposal has no financial impact on expenditure, but has a financial impact on revenue.
in writing. i supported the report on the proposal to appoint mr lazaros stavrou lazarou as a member of the court of auditors, as mr lazarou has the necessary qualifications and experience as a member of the court of auditors since 2010. mr lazarou has written many specialist reports and i am confident that he will continue to contribute constructively to the work of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for the appointment of mr juan alejandro tavares gonzález de figueredo as a member of the court of auditors, as i believe that mr figueredo has the necessary experience in the fields of public finance, budgeting and strategic management.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this draft regulation as it relates to statistics on external trade with third countries and to the functioning of the eu in relation to the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures. it's important that there's a thorough discussion. fortunately, following the publication of the outcome of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the draft regulation has been revised accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this report, although we have seen a thorough consultation process in the form of a dialogue not only with the member states but also with the national regulators. the regulation has been interpreted to replace directive 2008/92/ec. under this regulation, member states will have to collect and report statistics on industrial and household gas and electricity prices. price data will be reported every six months for different consumption volumes and will cover energy prices, access charges, fees and charges and their sub-components. despite the strange first impression, this report deals only with factual reporting and imposes other obligations on member states. the sovereignty of the member states in matters of policy therefore remains intact. that's why i decided to support this initiative.
in writing. i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european statistics on natural gas and electricity prices and repealing directive 2008/92/ec of the european parliament and of the council on a community procedure to improve the transparency of gas and electricity prices for industrial end-users, as i believe that access to data on natural gas and electricity prices is in the interest of the household end-user. this step would improve the quality of the survey of electricity and natural gas prices for the household sector, the inclusion of components such as excise duties, and ensure price comparability across member states. i believe that access to data for the household and non-household sectors would help to improve the cost breakdown methodology and the accuracy of the overall average share of transmission and distribution costs.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because the collection of the electricity and natural gas price charged to industrial consumers and households should become obligatory for all member states. this step is necessary in order to continue to achieve a wide market coverage and high quality of price data. the price data on gas and electricity prices are needed for monitoring the internal market for energy, and the impacts of various policies in the field of energy, such as support for renewable energy sources. this is particularly important in the context of the energy union strategy, which obligates the commission to prepare reports about energy costs and prices every two years, starting in 2016.
mr president, i have supported this report, i consider it important. for me, building an internal energy market is not just a matter of economic advantage and strengthening the eu internal market as such, but it is also a matter of energy security, which is particularly geopolitically important for smaller countries that were formerly under the influence of the soviet union during the communist era. in short, the better the internal energy market, the less dependent we will be on energy from outside the eu, for example from russia, and the better able we will be to negotiate better terms with our external partners. the advantage of this material, which is why i endorse and support it, is that it leaves it up to the individual states to choose their energy sources, including nuclear energy. nuclear energy is not banned here, which i think is very correct and sensible.
mr president, the report we are voting on today is entitled 'towards a new concept for the energy market'. i would question that. my country bulgaria had to decommission a total of four reactors from a nuclear power plant that served the needs of a number of countries in the region in order to join the european union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the capacity of the electricity market in the prc. the commission notes that the project is not a public-private partnership, but is a public-private partnership. any delay takes away the opportunity to create jobs in one of the poorest regions in the european union. how will economic growth in europe be achieved if the cost goes into building new and new infrastructure rather than making full use of projects already underway? that's what every bulgarian citizen pays for every day.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this file because, although it contains some good ideas, it refers to the overall top-down approach. when we talk about energy markets, especially with recommendations for better cooperation, we must not forget that geopolitical challenges across the european union vary widely. when discussing policy, these regional specificities must be taken into account immediately. in addition, there is an even more fundamental challenge infrastructure. bulgaria is one of the eu member states that is struggling with these similar challenges. the solution to overcome these obstacles is not to introduce both centralised and decentralised structures. market distortions and inappropriate investment in new facilities must be avoided, and if these are eu-led, we will put the whole system at risk. incorporating more renewable energy is a good approach, and i strongly support it. nevertheless, the eu's approach to defining the energy mix policy will ignore regional specificities and only disrupt the functioning of the whole structure.
in writing. i supported the report on a new energy market concept as i believe it is a successful step towards achieving and guaranteeing the eu's energy independence. it is necessary to establish a long-term and transparent concept that includes and protects both national and european objectives and interests, striking a balance between security of supply and price sustainability. the integrated single energy market will help overcome europe's energy dependence on russian gas and oil imports, which will provide a prerequisite for achieving and negotiating better terms with new and potential eu energy partners. i believe that a coordinated renewable energy policy between the eu and national energy policies will promote the production and consumption of energy from renewable sources, help to integrate the energy market, reduce the prerequisites for energy poverty and promote the fight against climate change.
in writing. ‒ i supported this dossier because it represents a good ideological approach to tackling the heating and cooling problems across the eu. i have some concerns about the possibility of getting some significant short-term effects, but in the long run, this is the only viable strategy if we want to improve the system and preserve the environment, considering the resources. it is clear that an assessment of the situation will have to be made for each member state, as the challenges vary drastically.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu heating and cooling strategy and i share the view that there is a need for a significant increase in funding for heat remediation activities for whole housing complexes, especially those built using large panel systems as a construction method. more funds from the european energy efficiency and renewable energy fund should be allocated to this purpose. it should become a priority, especially in view of the fact that the owners of the buildings concerned are generally unable to bear the associated costs and that the support from the national state is insufficient. it should also be emphasised that the greatest potential for efficiency gains in the new countries that joined the eu after 2004 is offered by the thermal remediation of buildings. this is a good way to ensure that energy is used more efficiently and to achieve a significant reduction in co2 emissions. the outdated thermal power plants in housing complexes must be replaced by small, high-efficiency thermal and power plants.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i think it contains many positive elements. special attention is paid to the role of smes for the european economy and cohesion policy, reducing red tape and encouraging financing. i am not only in favour of linking support for smes to the integration of migrants and refugees.
in writing. i support the report on the implementation of the thematic objective 'enhancing the competitiveness of smes'. it is fundamental to achieving the objectives of the cohesion policy and europe 2020. it accurately represents the concentration on cohesion policies and provides an effective tool for creating operational programmes with a better focus on investment priorities. last but not least, it explains the importance of smes as the main generators of job vacancies, the basis of the economies of the member states and the sector that most successfully develops the service sector. we continue to push for less red tape, easier access to a variety of sources of funding and greater precision in the criteria and selection of smes for support. although it's the fastest-adapting sector, it's also the most vulnerable because it doesn't have a lot of turnover. cohesion policies would further support the growth of the regions in the member states. it is also important to create the conditions for specialised training to ensure sustainability and management capacity.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are essential to the economy of eu regions in terms of both employment and competitiveness. during the 2014-2020 programming period, cohesion policy will provide additional support for smes, with support for the 2007-2013 period doubling to reach eur 140 billion. by 2020, smes are expected to provide industrial production amounting to at least 20% of the gdp of the member states. the report calls on the commission, when formulating cohesion policy for the period after 2020, to increase funding for the competitiveness of smes.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe that it is favourable to smes. the report introduces thematic concentration in the cohesion policy programming 2014-2020. through thematic concentration, operational programmes appeared to be better targeted towards a limited number of strategic goals, in particular in terms of growth enhancement and high quality job creation potential for smes.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs bresso, on her report on the european union strategy for the alpine region. at the same time, however, i would also like to draw attention to the need for a similar approach and strategy for other mountain regions in the european union, and in particular the balkans. the mountain regions, as we know, are disadvantaged compared to other regions, they are more flexible and we need to approach them in a special way. in her report, ms bresso called on the european investment bank to explore the possibility of creating an investment platform for the alpine region and also called for the creation of a project channel for the region that would attract investors. similar steps should be taken towards other mountain regions of the european union, and in particular towards south-east europe, where mountains are an important link in cross-border cooperation. i therefore call for equal access to quality financing for all mountain regions in the european union, for quality investment and growth in them, so that there is no europe at two or even three speeds.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu strategy for the alpine region. it covers seven countries, five of which are eu member states, and 48 regions with a population of over 80 million. the aim of this strategy is to promote the beneficial interaction between mountain and surrounding lowland and urban regions. from a financial point of view, the strategy does not require the use of additional funds, but rather builds on the potential of the esi.
in writing. ‒ i expressed my support for the report on the european union strategy for the alpine region, as i believe it provides an answer to common issues for the region, in line with the major european objectives of 'europe 2020' in the field of sustainable development, the environment and energy. proposals for the responsible management of sustainable and competitive tourism, the diversification of tourism products and supply in order to overcome the seasonal nature and improve the quality and innovation in tourism are of key importance for the development of the alpine region. at the same time, protecting the remarkable lake system that runs through the alpine and pre-alpine plains, preserving and restoring the biodiversity of ecosystems by providing an appropriate monitoring, information and management system for the natura 2000 network, requires sustainable nature management. it enables the countries of the region to invest in joint projects at european, not just interregional, level and to promote the achievement of sustainable development of the alpine economy and the sustainable use of alpine resources. i hope that the experience gained from the implementation of the strategy will soon be used in other mountain areas of the community.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the eib, in cooperation with the commission, to explore the possibility of creating an investment platform for the alpine region that would allow for the mobilisation of funds from public and private sources; calls for the creation of a gas pipeline project for the region that would attract investors; encourages the creation of clusters and cooperation between public and private enterprises, universities, research institutes and other stakeholders to promote innovation.
in writing. – i supported this report as it underlines the importance of financial instruments, of encouraging innovation and new technologies in key areas of the economy, while preserving also forms of traditional economic activity. it supports the diversification of tourism, stresses the importance of improving transport and energy connectivity, as well as of protecting and enhancing the biodiversity in the alpine region.
in writing. ‒ i voted abstention on the report on the eu trust fund for africa: the implications for development and humanitarian aid, as i am generally in favour of giving money to african countries for development and stabilisation in the region, but i cannot agree with the criticism in the resolution that member states are not contributing enough money to this fund. at a time when member states are still emerging from the economic crisis and need to invest continuously to deal with the refugee crisis, countries should not be obliged to give more money. on top of that, the latest reports of the european court of auditors have many comments on the use of european funds, especially in north africa. the reports criticise european programmes for having weak controls on spending and for having little impact on investment. that is why i believe that before the union can start to provide large amounts of development and stabilisation funds, it must establish robust control mechanisms to reduce the misuse of european public funds.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it contains constructive recommendations to improve the effectiveness of the emergency trust fund for africa. the instrument was set up at the valletta migration summit in november 2015 and symbolises the eu's commitment to tackling the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration. i support the call in the report for member states to align their contributions with the union contribution in order to enable the eu trust fund to develop to its full potential. it is also essential to ensure that the eu trust fund reflects the principles of policy coherence for sustainable development and complementarity between all development stakeholders. i believe that the rules for funding projects with eu trust fund funds should be determined on the basis of shared values and common interests. therefore, particular emphasis should be placed on the respect and promotion of human rights, including women's rights. empowering women and ensuring their active participation in the political, economic and social development of countries of origin is a key element in strengthening stability in africa and will contribute to better managing migration.
in writing. ‒ the eu trust fund for africa (eutf) is a very important development tool that pools together resources from different donors in order to enable a quick, flexible, and collective eu response to the different dimensions of an emergency situation. in particular, the eutf aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development in 23 countries across three african regions (the horn of africa, the sahel and lake chad basin; and north africa). however, to achieve its goals and to be effective, the eutf should provide a better balance of funding for recipient country governments and especially for reliable civil society actors, who tend to be more aware of societal deficiencies which are in need of support.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution because i would like to support development and humanitarian aid. in times of unprecedented levels of irregular migration, this trust fund aims to support the most affected african countries, to help foster stability in those regions and to promote tighter africa-eu cooperation on issues of migration management, security and development. the eutf aims at addressing the root causes of destabilisation, displacement and irregular migration in three regions: the horn of africa, the sahel and lake chad, and north africa.
in writing. ‒ working families are facing new challenges in work-life balance. this report provides suggestions for the commission to consider in modernising and adapting the current eu legal and policy framework on childrearing and maternity. i and my political group are strong supporters of the family and its values and believe that there should be freedom in finding a balance between family and professional life. however, many of the things proposed in the report are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, and some paragraphs suggest even more men staying at home to encourage women in working life, which is not an eu job and is a personal choice that cannot be put into a legal framework. that's why i abstained.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i support the report on creating conditions in the labour market that favour work-life balance. equality between men and women is a fundamental principle enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which must be guaranteed in all areas, including with regard to work-life balance. well-designed and implemented policies to achieve this balance should be seen as a significant improvement in the working environment, as they contribute to good working conditions and to social and occupational well-being. i believe that a good work-life balance is a driver for economic growth, competitiveness, equal participation in the labour market, gender equality, reduction of the risk of poverty and solidarity between generations.
in writing. i supported this report because i believe that the european union is facing a serious demographic challenge and that most member states are experiencing a large decline in fertility. one of the main reasons behind this worrying trend is the lack of a balance between personal life and career. i believe that we need modern policies that pay particular attention to the need to increase the levels of labour market participation among young women, especially post-maternity women and single mothers. although women are more educated, their employment rate within the eu is significantly lower than that of men. i believe that for these policies to be successful, we must first combat the widespread stereotypes about the roles of men and women in today's society. and stereotypes, as we all know, are built from an early age and are reflected in education and career choices and continue in the workplace. if we don't change our mentality, no policy will be effective.
in writing. – as underlined in the report, there is a need to modernise work—life balance through legislative and non-legislative initiatives. the co-rapporteurs emphasise the importance of reconciliation of professional, private and family life and consider it even as a fundamental right. furthermore it stressed the importance of flexible forms of work in allowing women and men to reconcile work and family life. for these and other reasons i supported this resolution.
mr president, as european partners of turkey we have to repeat again our condemnation of the july coup attempt. this coup was a test for turkish democracy. the reaction of the turkish people deserves our solidarity and support. despite the turmoil in the country, the government institutions are continuing to function properly, thus guaranteeing the existence of democratic society. together with turkey we are in a complex geopolitical situation, we are pressed by the same challenges and we have a set of common interests. the problems can be handled by acting together. this inevitably means increasing all aspects of our cooperation. the accession negotiations with turkey must continue, raising the level of constructive dialogue. the process of visa liberalisation should be accelerated, thus improving trade relations and providing for economic growth and employment both in the eu and turkey. we should not forget that turkey has been sheltering more than three million refugees for over four years, having spent more than eur 8 billion to sustain these people. do we abide by our commitment to provide financial resources to support the efforts of our turkish partners? finally, on the subject of migration pressure, are we doing enough to protect the external border of the union – as in the case of my country, bulgaria, and of greece – in order to keep the internal borders open?
dear ms. mogherini, dear colleagues, your policy towards erdogan is completely wrong and shows a profound ignorance of the situation in the country and the region. the illegal occupation of northern cyprus, which is essentially the annexation of foreign territory, continues. the crackdown on free speech, on civil rights, on ethnic cleansing in diyarbakir and eastern anatolia continues, support for the islamic state continues. the coup in turkey has succeeded. it seems that you and some of your colleagues here are the only ones who haven't understood. dividing dictators into "good" and "bad", dividing the annexation of foreign territories into "good" and "bad" is a grave political hypocrisy. the deal with erdogan on illegal immigrants is a grave political mistake, because it is giving in to the blackmail of a dictator. visa liberalization with turkey is unwise because it will flood europe with millions of illegal immigrants. i urge the termination of the negotiations for turkey's membership of the european union, because turkey is not a european country today and has no place in this european union, not sharing the values that we all claim to profess and that we all share.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, thank you for your clear and relevant messages. this is the first election observation mission deployed to gabon. it is therefore a clear signal of our support for the gabonese people in their quest for democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and i am honoured to be able to lead this mission. i would like to begin by thanking you for your kindness. first of all, i would like to thank all the european union observers and in particular my team, some of whom are still deployed in gabon. they're doing a remarkable job. secondly, i would like to thank the people of gabon for the warm welcome they gave to our observers, for their patience and for the calm that prevailed on the day of the vote. i would also like to thank the gabonese authorities, who invited the european union to observe the elections, signed the memorandum of understanding and have so far guaranteed the safety of our observers. during this mission, we were able to meet all stakeholders, the authorities, the different political parties, all presidential candidates and civil society. we have also worked in close cooperation with the other observer missions and representatives of the international community on the ground. today, it is crucial to complete the work of the mission without wasting time and energy on unacceptable accusations, false allegations or lies. this brings me to my second part. a genuine dialogue and partnership also provide an opportunity to tell ourselves the truth. in the context of the mission, i would like to draw attention to a few facts, because the possibility of commenting on facts reported by our observers is also one of the strengths of the eu election observation mission. the main facts at this stage are as follows: contrary to the provisions of the memorandum of understanding, the mission has had unequal access to the consolidation of results according to the local electoral commissions. the results were not publicly announced in haut-ogooué province, contrary to the law. in the same province, an anomaly was found in the turnout and compared with an analysis of the number of non-voters and blank and void ballots. there was no publication of the results polling station by polling station, in accordance with international best practice. today, as from the beginning of the process, we call for non-violence and calm. we continue to be guided by the requirement of transparency at all stages of the electoral process. we call on all actors to stick to legal and peaceful remedies. this now includes observing the handling of appeals to the constitutional court. this is a key phase of the electoral process and we expect that our legal expert's access to the work of the court will be guaranteed, as will the safety of the team members who are still on the ground. the access of international experts to the court is also welcome. finally, i would like to express the full support of the mission to mr chergui, commissioner of the african union, to professor bathily, special representative of the united nations, and to mr abdallah, of the international organisation of la francophonie, and to thank them for their efforts. i would like to conclude by saying that all actors have a responsibility to help to defuse the situation. the restoration of gabonese confidence in the integrity of the electoral process requires transparency. today, in respect of the law, as an election observation mission, we turn our eyes to the constitutional court, which we expect to continue to be the embodiment of that justice without which no state of law can claim to be.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, let me get straight to the heart of the matter, beyond the importance of the summit itself. i would like to stress certain aspects which the european union should stress at the summit. first, international aid must be stepped up for the host communities. this summit commitment will have to be implemented as soon as possible and at a sufficient level in the current syrian refugee crisis. secondly, i am pleased that a strong place is being given to refugee women not only as vulnerable people but also as agents of change and of the future. promoting women's empowerment is an investment in the reconstruction and stabilisation of the country of origin. secondly, i find it encouraging that border management and the dismantling of criminal networks of migrant smugglers are being taken seriously. we need a clear mechanism for cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination. information and analysis of routes, border control and future prospects for migrants are three key elements to promote safe, smooth and orderly immigration. fourthly, the summit document must be strengthened with regard to the root causes and the anticipation of movements. i am thinking in particular of conflict prevention and the effects of climate change on the movement of people. finally, the draft document recognises existing regional initiatives such as the rabat and khartoum processes and the valletta action plan. the eu must ensure that these initiatives are effectively taken fully into account at the global level and a clear and consistent timetable for implementation is welcome.
- what? the president, i 'm sorry , miss . high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the huge waves of migration are the global phenomenon of this decade, and there is no national solution to them. i therefore consider that the high-level forum to be held under the auspices of the united nations is essential. we need to take a leading role in it as one of the most affected countries, but also as the largest donor of humanitarian aid in the world. for the first time, it will bring together government leaders, ngos and all stakeholders in the search for a response to the refugee crisis. the european union must work towards a strong political declaration that will underpin a global and effective framework for cooperation based on shared responsibility for the reception of refugees and migrants. i also believe that this forum is a historic opportunity to counter the xenophobia and hate speech that most often targets refugees and migrants, and at the same time to seek the global formula for their integration into free democratic societies.
in writing. mr president, i welcome the organisation of the first ever un summit on refugees and migration and the adoption of a global framework to tackle the issue. indeed, the migration situation in europe's neighbourhood should not be seen as an isolated, regional problem, but as a deep-rooted global challenge that needs lasting solutions. the current humanitarian situation requires a collective political response and shared international commitments. to be able to demand more solidarity at global level, the european union and its member states must also set an example by overcoming the current crisis of solidarity and sharing fully the responsibility for refugees.
madam president, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr castaldo, on the very good report which he has presented to us today. tunisia is in the process of a triple transition, political, economic and social, and also faces significant security challenges. this is a priority of the eu's neighbourhood policy, not only to ensure the continuation of the transition, but also because this country has the potential to become a locomotive in the mediterranean region in several ways. on both sides, everyone must do their job in a mutual investment that is up to the challenge. i would like to stress three elements. first, the young people. their participation in the next local elections is crucial, as is their inclusion in the labour market. to achieve this, we know that the education system must be able to meet the needs of the labour market, particularly in sectors with high potential such as agriculture or renewable energy. secondly, regional integration must be part of the objectives of eu-tunisia relations, on the one hand in terms of security, in connection with the situation in libya and radicalisation, and on the other hand from an economic point of view, it is clear that greater cooperation and integration between tunisia and its neighbours would be beneficial. the eu approach must also take this dimension more into account. finally, i am pleased that the report focuses not only on financial support but also on operational possibilities to support the tunisian transition. the eu-tunisia joint parliamentary commission, exchanges between parliamentary and local administrations and the sharing of experience in regional development are all concrete elements.
madam president, countering social dumping urgently requires effective cooperation between national authorities and social partners in order to end exploitation of workers and unfair competition. it is therefore the explicit obligation of the commission to ensure full use of the new platform to tackle undeclared work from its very next session in september, as a most valuable venue to develop just such cooperation. i very much welcome your introductory words commissioner to that effect. as to the particular challenges regarding transport – a sector of particular importance for bulgaria, with over three thousand personnel providing vital income for their families – it is imperative that there must be no further liberalisation of cabotage until implementation of the current legislation is ensured, together with the necessary guarantees for equal access to the single transport market.
mr president, i would like to acknowledge that president juncker has the difficult mission of leading the commission in times when the unthinkable becomes possible and is actually happening. mr juncker, brexit or the lack of solidarity on tackling the refugee and migration crisis are just the symptoms, but in order to help the european union and create perspective, you need to address the root causes and therein the fact that, in the five years of the barroso commission, social europe fell victim to an austerity—only policy. when you were elected as president of the commission, you promised to change that. you said that europe should have social triple—a standards, but this is not a reality yet. what the socialist family is expecting from you and from the commission is for you to have a clear road map which will balance the freedom of economy and initiative with clear social standards across the european union. i would urge you one more time to seriously address the issue of youth in the european union. our family proposed a clear plan, a european youth plan, with four clear pillars: employment with much more money for that for the youth guarantee – and i did not hear your commitment – culture, education and child protection. if you start fighting for that and making it a reality, then there is a good chance that europe will return confidence to the citizens.
in writing. the european union is in a deep crisis. a crisis in every aspect: economic, political, social and most of all, an identity crisis. today the european union must make a choice: will it continue the policy of federalisation or will europe return to the original idea of a union of strong nations? after the referendum in the uk, it became clear that the policy of taking away national sovereignty, of taking away competences from national states, is not in the interest of the citizens and they do not want it to continue. the growing popularity of parties that are anti-federalists is a confirmation of this. the european union has distanced itself from its citizens. for that reason, he needs a new direction. european commission president jean-claude juncker said that we need more europe and more union. i believe that more europe means stronger national states, which aim for prosperity and a better life for their people.
in writing. – i would like to thank president juncker for the concrete messages especially when it comes to security and border control. i am pleased by the commitment of the commission to send at least 200 extra frontex border guards and 50 vehicles to help with the protection of the bulgarian-turkish border as of october, which is also the eu’s external border. the bulgarian authorities have put daily efforts ‎into protecting the southern border of the country and coping alone with the increased migrant flow pressure in the last two years. but shared interests in the eu mean shared responsibilities. as long as it is in everyone’s interest to know who is crossing our borders and to make sure this only happens legally, bulgaria’s efforts must be supported. ‎this support must have concrete practical dimensions. the bulgarian government will present to the commission a list of specific demands for equipment, vehicles and personnel. i would like to call for a swift approval of the necessity because it has become clear that without joint efforts by all eu states, a lasting solution cannot be found.
in writing. ‒ in february 2014, a majority in switzerland voted to allow the state to autonomously regulate immigration and residence permits, giving priority to swiss citizens when hiring staff. this is a sovereign state decision for me. however, it is in breach of the agreement that switzerland has signed with the eu on the free movement of people and needs to be revised. the report votes for croatia's accession to this agreement as part of the eu and the rejection of this report would not solve this problem but would only create a legal vacuum. that is why i supported the report, because croatia would also benefit from free movement, and what are the procedures and the substance of the agreement and whether it is valid or not should be considered at another level.
in writing. – with croatia entering the european union in 2013, protocol iii was initiated and after a series of actions between the eu and switzerland, on 4 march 2016, the two parties signed protocol iii extending the agreement on the free movement of persons to croatia. i believe the free movement of persons is an important for the smooth functioning of the internal market and the eu’s relation with eea countries. this is why i fully support this protocol.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the tripartite social summit because i believe that the european parliament should be an equal participant in it. it is important that, in addition to the council and the commission, we also have a representative at this important meeting with the social partners from all over europe. i therefore voted in favour of the president of the committee on social affairs being the official authorised representative of the ep.
in writing. i support the uniform application of common technical requirements to vessels on inland waterways in the european union with a view to ensuring a high level of safety and efficiency in shipping. i also support the rapid adaptation of standards developed by international organisations, in particular by cesni (european committee for the standardization of inland navigation), which should be set up under the auspices of the central commission for rhine navigation. in the interests of safety and to ensure a level playing field, it is necessary to make progress towards a single set of technical standards. this will provide certainty and ensure that the requirements can be introduced within a reasonable timeframe so as to maintain high safety standards for all european inland waterways and not hinder the development of the sector.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mrs lambsdorf because i believe that the conclusion of an economic partnership agreement between the european union and the countries of the southern african development community is a good thing. the asymmetrical nature of the agreement creates a 'positive discrimination' for the sacp partners by providing them with duty-free access to the eu market, while reciprocally removing 'all trade barriers' and ensuring compatibility with the wto, promoting regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance.
in writing. the partnership agreement between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and the sadc epa states, on the other, will contribute to sustainable economic growth and enhance intra-regional trade and integration. the eu exports of the octs consist of oil from angola (23%), diamonds from botswana (11%), precious stones, metals and fish from namibia and sugar from swaziland. the sadc states should consider using the potential of the gsp beyond trade in goods and to include trade in services in the future. the asymmetrical nature of the agreement creates 'positive discrimination' between the spa and the eaeu partners, guaranteeing them duty-free access to the eu market, removing barriers to trade between the parties to the agreement and promoting regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance. i support the agreement on the condition that sensitive eu agricultural and fisheries products will not be affected by it. i believe that in the context of the crisis in the sector, the market should not be liberalised. we must not jeopardise the livelihoods of millions of people in this sensitive european industry.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against this resolution because it is an unacceptable interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state like poland. the admonishing tone, the tone with which some of my colleagues are trying to tell the polish citizens and the polish nation how to organize their state, is absolutely unacceptable and unjustified. and this is one of the reasons why there is growing suspicion in european countries about the sanity of the european union's rulers in brussels. obviously the european union needs reform, and that reform needs to be exactly in the direction of much more sovereignty, subsidiarity and much more rights for national governments to govern their own state and their own countries. otherwise, what will happen is what was also discussed today in the council, namely, a growing distrust of the european institutions. poland is a sovereign state and should be able to dispose of its own internal order.
in writing. ‒ the eu is built on a common set of values, enshrined in the eu treaty. these values are freedom, the rule of law and human rights. these values have made the union, and the decision of poland’s conservative law and justice government to change the way in which judges are appointed to the country’s constitutional tribunal represents a real threat to the eu’s common set of values (in particular the rule of law in poland). in addition to that, the government’s decision to change the organisation and functioning of the polish state threatens freedom of speech and transparency. to address these fundamental issues, the polish government should work with the eu. this is particularly important at a time when europe’s institutions are being challenged by eurosceptic parties and populist movements across the continent. poland has become an immensely important test for the eu and the union should prove that it is ever closer and united by our common set of values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for this report because tunisia is not only the birthplace of the arab spring, but also the only arab country where democracy has been successfully consolidated. today, tunisia is a democratic state whose constitution guarantees the rule of law and protects the fundamental rights and freedoms of its citizens. a key feature of the country's successful democratisation is the presence of a well-developed and stable civil society. despite the progress made, the country today faces a difficult socio-economic situation. and instability in the region and the threat of terrorist attacks are having a negative impact on tourism and tunisia's fragile economy. the european union should therefore work to enhance tunisia's capacity in terms of its stability, democracy, good governance, fight against corruption and economic development. the eu and tunisia have agreed to cooperate in the fight against terrorism, and to work together to combat it. and at the same time, to create a common strategy for joint programs to de-radicalize as the best prevention against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on eu-tunisia relations. tunisia's democratic transition over the past five years has been held up as an example of optimism by other arab spring countries. in december 2014, tunisia became the first of these nations to successfully complete its transition to democracy and held its first ever democratic presidential elections. tunisia is ahead of its neighbours and has strong trade links with europe, and the international community supports the process as a model for stability and democracy in the region. the report by ms castaldo assesses how eu relations with tunisia have developed since the dawn of the arab spring. noting that tunisia is a priority country for the european union, he encouraged increased eu support.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the relations between the european union and tunisia in the current regional context. i believe that a deeper partnership between the european union and tunisia is needed to improve the situation in terms of stability, democracy, good governance, the fight against corruption, economic development and employment in the region. i welcome the establishment of a joint parliamentary committee between the european union and tunisia, which will play a key role in providing an opportunity for representatives of both parties to meet regularly and develop a structured political dialogue on democracy, human rights, the rule of law and other topics of common interest. the political dialogue between the european union and tunisia in the field of counter-terrorism is also of great importance. terrorism is a common challenge that requires a common response and cooperation between the two sides in the field of security and counter-terrorism is making progress, in particular with the launch of an ambitious programme to support security sector reform. i also support the un-led process of peace and political reconciliation in libya as important for the stabilisation of the wider region and the strengthening of security and reform process in tunisia.
in writing. against the backdrop of instability in north africa and the middle east, tunisia is a rare example of a country that continues its democratic development. i think that if the eu wants to contribute to peace in the arab world, one of the things it has to do is to promote the development of countries like tunisia and help that country become a role model for the rest of the region. one of the most effective ways the eu can help mitigate the situation in the southern mediterranean countries is by providing logistical and financial assistance. this aid will serve to restore security and the economy in the country, creating jobs for the many unemployed young people who, finding themselves in a situation of desperation, become a natural target of the radical influences promoted by organisations such as the islamic state. an important clarification to be made is that my support for granting aid to tunisia must be distinguished from the conclusion of a trade agreement which would have a negative effect on the livelihood of the european farmer.
in writing. – i voted in favour as i believe that the relations of the eu with neighbouring countries are of utmost importance for the stability and security of the bloc – both internally and externally. in this report the parliament urges the european union and the member states to mobilise and better coordinate substantial technical and financial resources to support tunisia. parliament also expresses deep concern about the immediate security spillover in tunisia originating from instability in libya. it welcomes the eu and tunisia mobility partnership signed in march 2014 and calls for its rapid implementation, and calls for a new visa policy towards tunisia and for the conclusion of a readmission agreement.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report by ms ballas on social dumping in the eu, as i do not think it represents the real situation in the eu. the purpose of this report is to set out the position of our institution on a number of forthcoming proposals from the european commission on the posting of workers, the review of regulation 883/2004 and the creation of a european pillar of social rights. the report contains a number of positive points and while i can agree and explicitly support the pursuit of equal rights for workers, i cannot support initiatives that undermine the competences of the member states.
in writing. social dumping is one of the topical issues facing working europeans, despite the existence of already adopted european norms. i supported mr ballas' report because i believe that it is necessary to ensure better crossborder cooperation between member states, namely between inspection services and the electronic exchange of data and information. the establishment of bilateral working groups mandated to carry out cross-border on-the-spot checks will not only reduce market abuse but also allow for easier detection of 'mailbox' companies. the difference in social security systems between member states is one of the main reasons for circumvention. the increase in inequalities in europe is jeopardising the achievement of the europe 2020 goals on poverty and employment. the adoption of social instruments aimed at ensuring effective competition will demonstrate that europe must be an example in tackling the problem of social dumping. the establishment of a european list of companies responsible for serious infringements and the adoption of the social pillar will help to ensure a fair european labour market in which there is no place for social dumping.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the objection to the delegated act because i agree that this rts is not yet ready. there's still room for improvement. not only do we need more precise wording, but also the industry is not ready yet and we should not introduce standards at the legislative level until the industry is still in a position to take it on board. there are still too many challenges that either need clarification or additional action and attention. those concerns were communicated to the commission but were not taken into account before the adoption of the delegated act. therefore, i voted to support the objection and to postpone the introduction of rts.
a question asked by raising a blue card. i want to ask you: the loss of €13 billion to the irish treasury as a result of the granting of tax breaks must be condemned as unlawful by all the european institutions. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the contested tax ruling was based on a methodology that was not in line with the arm's length principle. do you not think that these 13 billion euros could have helped ireland in years when the country was in financial and economic crisis with minimal economic growth and indicators? and should such vicious practices not be put to an end in the european union?
i support my colleague rapporteur, mr hala-aho, the sooner europe gets rid of the illegal immigrants, the better chance we have of surviving physically. but why stop there? i'll speak as a citizen. in the european capital sofia, just 100 meters from the president and the prime minister, the center is now called "little baghdad". afghans and africans are harassing european citizens. bulgaria has become a turkish highway for trafficking illegal migrants from turkey and afghanistan to western europe. europe has closed its borders, and our government - unable to protect them - has been forced to mediate between mrs merkel and mr erdogan. i'm proposing additional measures. first, the amendment of the dublin regulation. we don't have to take back illegal and economic migrants just because they set foot on our soil first. extradition to their home countries. secondly, the european union to bear the costs of all activities to secure its only remaining unguarded external border between bulgaria and the republic of turkey.
mr president, the refugee crisis has unequivocally exposed the weaknesses of the common european asylum system. the excessive burden it places on several so-called 'first arrival countries', the divergences in the interpretation of the rules at national level. the relocation mechanism for italy and greece has also been slow and unsatisfactory, and now the emergency interim measures will also apply to the implementation of another exceptional instrument the agreement with turkey. all of this just shows us that the current system is not sustainable and it's going after the events. reform of the outdated dublin system is a step in the right direction, but to find long-term solutions we need to adopt as soon as possible a common european response to migration pressures based on full sharing of responsibilities without exceptions.
mr president, as enshrined in the treaties of the european union, the overarching objective of the internal market is to achieve full employment and social progress, that is, a decent job for each and every european citizen no matter which part of the union he may belong to. this year, parliament is once again calling on the council to revise the guidelines addressing the necessary policies to achieve this fundamental contract with citizens to ensure an inclusive integrated labour market, decent working conditions and wages for an adequate living income by way of collective bargaining. yet the council has consistently chosen to ignore this pivotal request of parliament, thus failing to live up to one of its basic responsibilities under union law. will the council this time break with this irresponsible practice and undertake parliament’s proposals, or not? i would like to turn to you, madam commissioner, joining the previous speaker and beg you to convey this message to the council since they do not seem to find anything of interest to be here tonight.
madam president, i talk regularly, if not daily, to entrepreneurs, start—ups and companies and they tell me two things. in order to grow and create the jobs needed, they need both funding and equal opportunities to develop their ideas in our european market. a company does not want to rely solely on one source of financing. the funding options at hand must be as innovative, flexible and creative as today’s enterprises are. a start-up does not want bottlenecks and one—size—fits—all solutions. they need a fair and tailored national and eu legislation. the recommendations given by my colleague, othmar karas, address this need but, if these proposals are not backed by very concrete – as well as swift – legislative actions, then we have crafted beautiful words but we need to turn them into actions in order to contribute to growth and competitiveness and jobs. what we can do is boost european venture capital funds and european social entrepreneur funds. we can commit to providing technical assistance to member states and developing market-based finance as part of the capital markets union initiative. today we have proven that commitment can provide results with the efsi, but it cannot work alone. it needs other solutions on the side, which i am sure we can provide.
mr president, the increase in the number of people living in poverty and social exclusion in europe by 4.8 million demonstrates that a decisive and urgent policy shift is necessary. the commission should at long last adopt the definition of a minimum income as at least equal to the risk-of-poverty threshold, which is set at 60% of the national median equalised disposable income. regrettably, the country-specific recommendations continue to be dominated by austerity. in bulgaria more than 40% of the population is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. so it is hypocritical for the commission simply to recommend modifications of the existing minimum income scheme, which carries a guaranteed minimum of eur 35 per month and a differentiated amount of just eur 60. it is therefore high time that the commission went beyond recommendations and spelled out a sound and reliable mechanism for setting the minimum income in the eu.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, over the past few years, the republic of the philippines has made significant progress. it is no coincidence that the european union granted the country gsp+ status at the end of 2014. in terms of human rights legislation, until recently, the country has been a model for other countries in the region, having ratified eight of the nine major conventions, but also being one of the first countries in asia to speak out against the death penalty. unfortunately, after the presidential election, the situation in the philippines has changed dramatically. state policy has taken on authoritarian dimensions. the unprecedented murder of 1,800 suspected drug dealers without trial or evidence of alleged crimes is an undemocratic act that we must oppose. i call on the philippine government to end extrajudicial executions and to abide by the international instruments that the country has ratified. it is necessary for president rodrigo duterte to guarantee a fair and independent judiciary and to engage in dialogue with international leaders and organisations to return the country to the path of democracy.
in writing. ‒ mr hala-aho's report updates the eu travel document standard, established in 1994, to speed up the process of returning non-eu nationals who are living illegally in the eu and do not have valid passports or identity cards. many european countries have extraordinary difficulties in returning these people to their countries of origin in a safe and legal manner. today, only 40% of eu irregular migrants are returned, as many non-eu countries do not accept documents issued by different eu countries, as many of them differ and do not meet the security and authenticity requirements. in order to speed up the return of irregular residents and increase the reliability of travel documents, it was necessary to update the legislation and to propose a common format for a european travel document. the new document will use all the security features used for european visas and will include personal information such as name, age, gender, distinctive signs and will clearly indicate that the document is valid for one trip only until the person arrives in the third country.
in writing. ‒ i support the european commission's proposal for a standardised travel document for the accelerated return of third-country nationals staying illegally in the european union. i believe that this document would make the administration and data processing easier. in view of the refugee situation, such a travel document would contribute to facilitating information systems and to a clearer view of the volumes of illegally staying citizens and border security. recognition of this document by the parties could limit abuses of asylum systems in europe and strengthen european citizens' confidence in eu asylum and immigration policy.
in writing. ‒ i have always stressed that the flow of refugees to the member states of the european union is a mixed flow of asylum seekers and illegal economic migrants. i am pleased that we have succeeded in making the return of those who do not qualify for international protection a priority for the european union. in most cases, these people do not have valid identity documents. member states are experiencing major difficulties in returning them. the data show that less than 40% of return decisions are actually implemented. the single european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals is a tool we aim to improve this. it will reduce the administrative burden and the deadlines. efficiency is key here. for a well-managed migration policy, the system must be both swift and fair. this will make it easier for countries to help and for refugees to get the help they need.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the prospectus to be published for the offer to the public or admission to trading of securities, as it is key to the proper functioning of the common capital market. the report aims to improve access to finance for companies of all sizes, in particular smes, and to reduce barriers, while maintaining adequate investor protection. the report simplifies the rules for the drawing up, approval and publication of prospectuses when securities are offered to the public or traded on a regulated market. this will greatly help smes, as they often face excessive costs in drawing up prospectuses in order to access capital.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, as i do not support the measures proposed by the commission for the resettlement of refugees, as well as the eu-turkey agreement on the exchange of refugees and the provision of financial assistance. i've been against mandatory refugee quotas from the beginning, which won't work, and more and more countries are refusing to take in refugees. according to ms. keller's report, the goal of the one-for-one refugee exchange scheme with turkey is for each syrian returned to help another syrian fleeing war and persecution. i am categorically against this measure, which is itself conflicting and discriminatory - how can some syrians have the right to asylum and others do not, but also the syrians sent by turkey are in no way threatened by war and persecution, because they are already in a safe country. under international law, a refugee fleeing war should be held in the first safe country and as close as possible to his home country so that he can easily return after the conflict is over, which is not the case for refugees coming to the eu. refugees come to the eu to stay.
in writing. i supported this report because it represents a concrete expression of solidarity with member states or third countries affected by a mass influx of migrants. this proposal for a council decision amending decision (eu) 2015/1601 allows member states to subtract from their transferee numbers the number of syrians admitted to their territory from turkey through resettlement, humanitarian admission or other forms of legal admission. the european parliament's report recognised that the implementation of the different resettlement schemes, humanitarian admission or other forms of legal admission would alleviate the migratory pressure on frontline member states. this will also make it possible to replace the dangerous and illegal migration flows of syrian nationals to the eu with safe and legal ways of migration. last but not least, i welcome the swift adoption of this report by the european parliament. this will support and accelerate the adoption of measures to deal with emergency situations, such as the current one, characterised by an increased flow of migrants, in accordance with the treaties on the functioning of the union.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this report because i believe that the european parliament's intervention here is inappropriate. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states should regard their economic and employment policies as matters of common concern and coordinate them within the eu. however, there is a request here for the opening of a chapter with guidelines on these policies, which has already been approved by the member states, and i cannot agree with that. it is not for parliament to encourage member states to consider new employment policies when there is already a consensus on the matter.
in writing. ‒ i supported this file because it is important that we do everything we can to protect wildlife and prevent the illegal use of wildlife, including common wildlife products. i was pleased to see that the proposal made specific recommendations to cites on issues such as transparency of decision-making, improved reporting, wildlife tracking, anti-corruption measures, etc. the draft text also supports the proposals made by the eu and its member states, in particular the proposed resolutions on fighting corruption and establishing standards applicable to international trade in hunting trophies. bulgaria also has a very rich flora and fauna and the preservation of wildlife everywhere is an important element in preserving the natural balance and our history. that is why i strongly support recent developments to more effectively enforce action against the illegal trade and barbaric acts that destroy these beautiful species, affecting not only us, but also depriving all generations to come.
in writing. i supported the proposed eu strategic objectives for the 17th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). the proposed resolution is an important step towards pursuing, upholding and implementing the eu's environmental policy objectives and the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, as well as the eu's commitments on sustainable development set out in the 2030 agenda. i believe that the resolution is of the utmost importance given the fact that the eu is a major market for the transit and illegal trade of wildlife. trafficking in wildlife is to be considered an organised transnational crime that negatively affects biodiversity, undermines animal welfare and damages national and eu budgets. comprehensive legislation is needed to reduce illicit trade and to criminalise all actions against flora and fauna that are carried out in breach of the laws of the country of origin, transit and the eu.
in writing. ‒ we know that postal services have undergone enormous changes in recent years. the changes are related to the decrease of some postal services due to the introduction of new technologies, but new markets for postal items are available due to the same new technologies and the increasingly large number of online purchases. i supported the report on my own initiative because it proposes a policy in favour of every citizen and his right to access these universal services, but at the same time it takes account of the specificities of the different markets and offers flexibility in the organisation of these services. it also upholds the independence of national regulators, which is a very important factor for me and my political family, and it underlines that each member state has a certain flexibility in the application of the directive.
in writing. – postal services continue to play a vital role across the european union, although the nature of that role is changing as new technologies are driving both e-substitution and an increasing volume of online purchases. as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i work for fair competition in all industries of the eu. hence i voted in favour, because promoting more competition in this sector is also important in reaching the europe 2020 goals for sustainable growth in a resource-efficient and more competitive economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the own-initiative report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the state of smes in europe. the report draws attention to the risks smes have had to face, but also highlights the potential benefits for them. the report by ms karas also stresses the need for administrative and tax relief for smes. i agree with him that such relief would help them to develop. an important part of this development process is also to raise awareness among smes themselves of the available sources of funding.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of sme finance within the capital markets union. small and medium-sized enterprises are fundamental to the european economy. access to finance for them remains an important issue. i support the proposals to improve the conditions for granting funds to help businesses. the report notes that bank lending is still the most important source of finance for smes (77%), but it also needs to be improved. i support the call on the commission to explore the possibility of introducing 'lending finance' programmes which would provide banks with ecb funds for the sole purpose of lending to smes, and to assess the possibilities of developing new initiatives to attract investment. last but not least, the most effective non-bank sources of finance for smes must be found. it is necessary to increase the culture of risk-taking and capital market leverage, the potential of new innovative financial technologies and to stimulate innovation through lending platforms.
in writing. – small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and mid-caps form a substantial part of the eu economy. access to finance for smes has been a long-standing objective of the eu policy agenda. as a substitute member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i am working towards easing access to finance for smes, and the capital markets union (cmu) can provide a good opportunity for them. that is why i fully support this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported mr krasnodembski's report as it highlights the important role of smes in job creation. currently, 85% of jobs in the union are created by smes and that is why their activity should be encouraged. the rapporteur stresses that in order to achieve a stable environment for business development and increase its job creation potential, national and european policies must prioritise addressing skills issues (shortages, mismatches, brain drain), regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, and the problem of undeclared work. the rapporteur also stresses the need to ensure a level playing field for smes in terms of their competitive position compared to large corporations. small and local businesses are particularly disadvantaged in the current over-regulated and bureaucratic administrative system.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the search for the best way to harness the job-creating potential of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the sector needs a lot of support to continue its successful development. this support will mean tackling youth unemployment levels and the unprecedentedly high rate of unemployment in general. we need to clearly identify the main challenges we need to overcome in order to create more job opportunities. these include skills shortages, insufficient assessment of future skills needs, mismatches between skills and needs, brain drain, unnecessary regulatory burden and regulatory uncertainty in all areas, lack of dialogue between market stakeholders, limited access to finance and public procurement, insufficient capacity for innovation and access to new technologies, insufficient support for smes under public investment policies, the grey economy and fraud, and the privileged position of mncs. the solutions are rooted in promoting a strong entrepreneurial culture, developing forms of cooperation between member states, appropriate training and changing legislation in member states.
in writing. – as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection i work for cutting red-tape for businesses and removing barriers for accessing markets. i voted in favour of this report, which promotes the conditions for smes’ development and for decreasing the administrative burdens and difficulties they experience.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to outline the current state of the employment equality directive and to encourage member states to better implement it, which i would agree with. my group made amendments to emphasise the eu's role in mediating and coordinating the exchange of best practice. the name-by-name voting on certain paragraphs requested by my group of european conservatives and reformists shows some of our positions on specific issues, but as the overall spirit of the report is positive, i supported it.
in writing. ‒ mr president president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately discrimination on grounds of sex, nationality, ethnicity or religion continues to be a barrier in the daily lives of too many europeans. i therefore support the conclusions of the report on the application of the employment equality directive. in order to effectively exercise the principles of equality and fundamental rights and freedoms in the field of employment, member states should systematically ensure that all existing legal texts comply with the principle of equal treatment. i expect them to encourage the work of national labour inspection bodies and to develop policies to raise awareness of victims of discrimination in employment, as workers are often not aware of their rights, the competent authorities to which they can turn, or the possibilities of obtaining support and legal protection.
in writing. i support the report on the implementation of the employment equality directive, adopted 15 years ago, whose ultimate aim is to create a level playing field in employment equality. the data from the fourth eurobarometer show that more europeans are tolerant of groups at risk of discrimination and are better informed about their rights in the event of discrimination than in the previous survey, conducted in 2012. there are still challenges to implementing the directive. i believe that member states should show greater commitment to the implementation of the principle of equality between women and men in employment policies and should develop gender-neutral occupational classifications and evaluation systems as mandatory measures to promote equal treatment. i also call on the member states to encourage employers to hire young people, while ensuring and respecting equal treatment in terms of pay and social protection.
in writing. – as a convinced european i believe that tolerance and non-discrimination should be at the heart of the eu policies. this is why i voted in favour of this report, which examines the still existing challenges to the implementation of the employment equality directive and looks for possible ways of improvement. furthermore, according to the forth eurobarometer, currently more europeans are tolerant of groups at risk of discrimination and are better informed about their rights in case of discrimination as compared to a previous survey conducted in 2012.
in writing. ‒ my group, the ecr, and i myself do not support the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) because we believe that it is not the right measure and that employment can and should be stimulated through other instruments, economic growth, skills redirection so that they can be adapted to new labour market conditions, etc. the egf is an emergency instrument and is outside the multiannual financial framework. a reserve fund has been set up from which he can draw his annual appropriations. i believe that the power of this instrument cannot justify the investment and therefore i do not agree with its existence.
in writing. – initially the egf was established by regulation ec no 1927/2006 to allow solidarity with workers who lost their jobs in large-scale redundancies because of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, where these redundancies have a significant adverse impact on the regional or local economy. i voted in favour, as the key aims of the report are directed towards examination of the results in the period 2007 – 2014, as well as identifying the weak and strong sides of the reforms of egf. such assessment is needed as it could adjust the use of the fund for the current programming period.
my dear mrs. the chairman, mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the problem of match fixing is widespread not only on our continent but also far beyond it. along with doping, it ranks as one of the most serious problems of our time. according to interpol data, in the one-year period between june 2012 and may 2013 alone, there were reports of match fixing in 70 countries, and that was in football alone. the international football association has reported that organised crime makes over €13 billion from this type of activity, and sees it as a safer alternative to drug trafficking, prostitution and human trafficking. according to interpol, sports betting attracts around one trillion euros a year, with nearly three quarters of that amount betting on football. although football and tennis are the most commonly affected sports, unfortunately, in recent years similar practices have been observed in boxing, basketball, handball, and volleyball. the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in accordance with the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i believe that the council of europe convention on the manipulation of sports competitions has the potential to become one of the most important, if not the most important, documents and instruments in this field. to this end, however, it is necessary to take steps to ensure that it is signed and ratified by the member states. i believe that efforts must be made to overcome the existing obstacles to its ratification in order to combat this harmful practice effectively, and not just read declarations.
the unreasonable and mistaken general policy of concentrating illegal immigrants in centres in populated areas has created an enormous amount of difficulties, a threat to public order and security, a threat to the safety and health of citizens around these centres. all around ovech koupel, vražská, harmanli citizens are protesting against these centers and demanding that they be closed. i will read you a brief statement adopted by the general assembly of the people of the town of harmanley yesterday, which calls for the registration and admission centre in the town of harmanley to be removed from the town. the public procurement contract for the extension of this centre and for the construction of new centres in the settlements is to be terminated immediately. requires police check for illegal residence of migrants at foreign addresses. action by the european union is required to conclude readmission with afghanistan. we demand an immediate change in the laws so that illegal immigrants are pushed back. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we need a new policy on migration and asylum. we will not allow our homeland to be turned into a camp for illegal immigrants.
in writing. ‒ i supported the ratification of the paris agreement adopted under the un framework convention on climate change as an important step for global action against climate change. the european parliament's consent opens the way to overcoming the double threshold and the entry into force of the paris agreement before the cop 22 climate change conference in marrakech from 7 to 18 november 2016. i believe that early ratification of the agreement is a top priority for the eu. a situation where the agreement enters into force without the eu being a party to it should be avoided, as the eu is a global leader in climate action policies and the world's largest financial donor.
in writing. ‒ today, the european parliament ratified the largest and first binding agreement of its kind against climate change. a large majority in the plenary of 610 votes for (90%) supported the text. it was a historic vote, ensuring that the paris agreement to combat climate change will be in force by the end of the year. the agreement commits parties for the first time to take concrete measures to limit global warming to below 2°c. europe is a global leader in the fight against climate change, and today we confirmed that. let us not forget that this is only the beginning of a long journey and it is up to all of us to make this agreement a success.
in writing. ‒ the paris agreement is a landmark achievement in the fight against climate change and in multilateral cooperation. the establishment of a climate protection benchmark is of paramount importance. the decision to ratify the conclusion of the paris agreement will send a strong signal and underline the leadership of the eu and its member states and their continued efforts to address climate change at international level. implementation of the paris agreement will make a key contribution to global efforts to combat climate change and its formal entry into force is therefore a key priority for the european union.
in writing. – i supported this report, as i believe it is high time to take concrete actions to combat climate change. the paris agreement is a global milestone for enhancing global collective action and accelerating the global transformation to a low-carbon and climate resilient society. the quick ratification decision by the eu on the conclusion of the paris agreement adopted under the unfccc will send a strong signal and highlight the leadership of the eu and its member states and their continuing efforts to address climate change at international level.
in writing. ‒ ladies and gentlemen, today, in the presence of the un secretary-general, we adopted a resolution on the eu's ratification of the paris climate agreement - a historic act, because the conditions for the agreement's entry into force will be met. it has been ratified by 63 parties to the unfccc (at least 55 if required) and accounts for around 52% of global greenhouse gas emissions (55% if required). as of today, the seven eu member states that have completed national ratification will be added, thus fulfilling the second criterion. thus, only nine months after its signature, the paris agreement can enter into force, whereas it took almost eight years to ratify the kyoto protocol, the agreement's predecessor. this is clear evidence that the world is ripe for global action to combat climate change, whether it's in developed or developing countries. i would remind you that in paris, the countries agreed to limit warming to 2°c, set a target of even 1.5°c, and in the second half of this century, strike a balance between anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases and their reabsorption by the earth and the seas. a truly historic moment in saving the planet.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece of eur 1 651 834 following the earthquake in the ionian islands in november 2015. the damage caused by it represents 2,1% of the islands' gdp and exceeds the threshold necessary to qualify for aid for a 'regional disaster'. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000.
in writing. ‒ it is necessary to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in order to provide a financial contribution to greece in the wake of the earthquakes that affected the ionian islands region. the earthquakes reached magnitude 6.1 on the richter scale. two people lost their lives, eight were wounded, 120 housing units were damaged, of which 20 were considered unsuitable for living. extensive damage to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites was reported. some of the most important beaches in terms of tourism were destructed. the affected region falls under the category of ‘less developed regions’ under the european structural and investment funds (2014-2020). therefore, in a sign of solidarity with the affected greek population and regions, the eu should provide assistance to greece.
in writing. greece applied to mobilise the eu solidarity fund this year after being hit by a strong earthquake of magnitude 6.5 in november 2015 that affected the ionian islands, in particular the leukada islands and the northern parts of ithaca and kefalonia. this earthquake caused significant damage to numerous infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites, amounting to more than eur 65 million. i support the implementation of solidarity fund instruments because i believe they show european citizens that europe is not forgetting them in the difficulties caused by natural disasters. in 2014 and 2015, my country bulgaria was also hit by several disasters, and we applied for help from the fund. although these aids did not fully cover the damage caused by the natural disasters, they did help some of the bulgarian population financially, demonstrating the empathy and solidarity that europe must show in such moments. i believe that the european parliament should approve this financial aid as soon as possible so that the people of the ionian islands can understand that they are not alone in these difficult times.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is not the right instrument to tackle this problem and my group and i are against funding under this fund because the result is not efficient. how to deal with unemployment and with the changes taking place in sectors where globalisation is most pronounced must be addressed through policies that create growth and jobs. so the victims of globalization will be able to re-establish themselves in other sectors.
in writing. ‒ the main aim of the fund is to help people who have lost their jobs to reintegrate into the labour market. the eu should mobilise the fund to support finland’s submitted application egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft for a financial contribution from the egf, following 2161 redundancies in microsoft mobile oy and 8 of its suppliers and downstream producers in finland. the main reason behind the redundancies in microsoft is the declining market share of its mobile phones. they link the workforce reductions to major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation by recalling that the eu share in the ict sector employment has decreased, while the share of china and the united states has increased. ict plays a key role in the finnish economy, with 6.7% of employees working in the ict sector in 2014 – the highest percentage amongst all member states. the egf is expected to support redundant workers through further education, training or entrepreneurship. another reason why i supported the mobilisation of the fund is that the finnish authorities have implemented all the necessary measures to activate and receive the egf fund.
in writing. in recent years, many european and foreign companies have closed their offices and branches in eu member states as a result of the short-sighted neoliberal economic policies pursued at european level. in the information and communication technology sector in particular, this is leading to the loss of many skilled jobs and is further undermining the eu's global competitiveness in the creation of innovative technological products and services. given the difficult situation faced by european citizens who are being made redundant by companies that are gradually closing down their operations in europe in the context of aggressive globalisation and a severe financial and economic crisis, as is the case with the finns working at microsoft, i believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund is one of the initiatives that the european parliament must support. this fund will provide finnish workers who have recently joined microsoft with access to the necessary advice, guidance and financial resources to help them discover and develop their skills and mobility in a way that they can quickly return to work and overcome the economic difficulties they now face.
in writing. ‒ the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of finland to help reintegrate workers made redundant by microsoft into the labour market. the report notes that the main reason for the redundancies at microsoft is the declining market share of its microsoft windows phones from 50% in 2009 to 0,6% in the second quarter of 2016. union financial assistance for redundant workers should be dynamic and delivered as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund is not the right instrument to tackle this problem and my group and i are against funding under this fund because the result is not efficient. how to deal with unemployment and with the changes in sectors where globalisation is most pronounced must be addressed through policies that create growth and jobs. so the victims of globalization will be able to re-establish themselves in other sectors.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in this regard, the main aim of the fund is to help people who have lost their jobs to reintegrate into the labour market. in light of this, the eu should mobilise the fund to support sweden’s submitted application egf/2016/002 se/ericsson for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in the economic sector classified under the nace revision 2 division 26 (manufacture of computer, electronic and optical products). in this case, 918 redundant workers eligible for the egf contribution will have new opportunities to reintegrate into the labour market. it is important to emphasise efforts undertaken by swedish authorities to break traditional gender barriers, including encouraging male beneficiaries to find jobs in the health sector. furthermore, we should welcome the swedish authorities’ efforts to provide a personalised package of training programmes and coaching that will enable most of the redundant employees to find high-quality new jobs. i supported mobilisation of the fund because the swedish authorities have implemented all necessary measures to activate and receive the egf.
in writing. financial support from the european globalisation adjustment fund should be provided to european workers in the information and communication technologies (ict) sector to avoid the risk of them becoming structurally unemployed as a result of the irresponsible liberalisation of the european internal market. in recent years, the trend in the ict sector has been increasingly towards domination of asian producers as well as contractors, due to the low cost of factors of production in this region, such as labour. the swedish company ericsson, in order to remain competitive, followed this trend by closing jobs in sweden at the expense of opening new ones in asia. all this left skilled workers in a situation of structural unemployment, as their skills were no longer in demand on the local swedish market. in this context, i am convinced that if we want the eu to develop in the field of ict and to have no structural unemployment, we must help through the european globalisation adjustment fund workers like those who worked at ericsson until recently.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'abstention' on the report by ms de jong, as i am concerned that the proposals made by the european commission are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and lead to a 'europeanisation' of criminal law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a directive on provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons in custody and legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings, as judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the union is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions. the application of this principle implies that member states have mutual trust in their criminal justice systems and in the way in which the rights of suspects and accused persons are protected, but differences exist in national practices, including in the interpretation of the right to a fair trial and the provision of effective legal aid. this can be an insurmountable obstacle to the maintenance of fair and effective judicial cooperation in criminal matters and in this sense the proposal for a directive is a positive step towards ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states and the related costs. the criteria for granting legal aid bring greater clarity without leading to full harmonisation, as it would be impossible and unnecessary to provide for detailed legislation at union level, given the differences in the level of costs of legal proceedings in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because there is no doubt that for those suspects, accused and requested persons who lack the necessary financial means, the right to legal advice and legal aid is the only way to take advantage of their right of access to a lawyer. unfortunately, there is a difference in the quality of legal assistance offered by member states. for one reason or another, in some member states fees for the lawyers are too low so that they are not willing to devote enough time and effort to providing high quality legal aid. therefore, the provision that allows suspects, accused and requested persons to show their preference and wishes with regard to their legal aid lawyer should be taken into account and included in the directive. provision should also be made for replacement of the legal aid lawyer, if the suspected, accused or requested person has lost all confidence in the lawyer and can motivate this on verifiable grounds. thus, we will not only reinforce the right to legal aid for suspects, accused and requested persons but will also ensure that they face a fair trial.
in writing. i supported mr young's report because i believe that european citizens who are suspected, detained or charged in a case, as well as those who are wanted on a european arrest warrant, should have the opportunity to seek legal redress before the european courts, even when they do not have sufficient means to provide themselves with legal counsel whenever justice requires it. i believe that the scope of the directive should cover both temporary and ordinary legal aid in all situations. in order to ensure the quality of legal aid provided, states should take the necessary measures to ensure the quality of the service provided in relation to legal aid and to ensure the proper application of the law in a fair process. different interpretations of the right to a 'fair trial', including through the mediation of legal aid, recognised in article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, hamper the provision of cooperation in criminal proceedings. this is why the draft legal aid directive must be adopted as soon as possible.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this dossier because i believe it enhances the rights for citizens and make the text clearer, in particular with the inclusion of the right to ordinary legal aid and not only to provisional legal aid. furthermore, i consider very important the inclusion of a means test and a merits test, which may be used to determine whether a person is eligible for legal aid.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the file. whilst initially there were some concerns regarding the extraterritoriality and ‘catch-all’ clauses, these issues were successfully resolved. i fully support the current text which focuses on issues arising from the export of pharmaceutical products which could be used for lethal injections. the agreed text as it stands today not only introduces a prior authorisation regime for brokering services and technical assistance, but also prohibits the transit of goods listed in annex ii, the advertising and promotion at exhibitions and trade fairs of goods listed in annex ii. further, it permits member states to adopt or maintain additional national measures and to establish a coordination group, enables the possible urgency procedure and introduces the review clause. i am convinced that the changes negotiated propose effective measures to complement existing legislation in adapting to these challenges. trade in such drugs must actively be prevented and this report is a decisive and important step towards this objective.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on trade in certain goods which could be used for the purpose of capital punishment, torture or other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. the right to life and the protection of human dignity are core european values and it is therefore necessary to prevent the distribution of goods and services that could be used for the purposes of capital punishment or torture. i believe that the report provides for specific legislative and practical measures which will help to achieve and implement this objective.
in writing. ‒ undoubtedly, human rights lie at the heart of the eu foreign policy and the eu actively promotes and defends them around the world. the eu is the leading institutional actor that holds a strong and principled position against the death penalty and torture. it is important that the eu uses all its available tools of diplomacy and cooperation assistance to work towards the abolition of the death penalty and torture. in this context, the eu should implement new legislation that prevents trade in certain goods and services that may contribute to capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment.
in writing. i gave my support to this report because i believe that as one of the organisations with a serious commitment to ensuring peace and promoting values such as the right to freedom of expression, the rights of isolated groups, etc. in the world, the european union must consistently ensure respect for these values, including by controlling and in particular not using european goods in the application of the death penalty, torture or other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. i also gave my support to the report because i support the creation of an anti-torture coordination group, ensuring the presence and voice of every member state. i believe that the functioning of this group would help to examine all the issues related to the application of regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 and to exchange information between the different representatives. this will build pan-european know-how, which will improve the application of the regulation and contribute to combating the trade in goods that could be used for the purpose of capital punishment, torture or other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment at global level.
in writing. – i supported this report as i consider it important to control the export of goods which are used for the death penalty and torture. i welcomed the commission proposal as adequate. the european parliament report stressed that unnecessary burdens for exporters must be avoided.
in writing. ‒ i supported mr morais' report on the china-europol strategic cooperation agreement, as this type of agreement with third countries is extremely important in helping to fight organised crime. increasingly, china is either a source or a transit country for a large number of international crimes such as trafficking in human beings and drugs, currency counterfeiting, in particular of the euro, but also intellectual property rights infringements, corruption in sport, cybercrime and money laundering. the agreement with china aims to improve the exchange of information such as expertise, situational reports, strategic analysis and others, excluding the exchange of personal data. the agreement also provides for common training and cooperation and support in individual criminal investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the strategic cooperation agreement between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol. there are clear operational needs for europol's cooperation with china. the information to be exchanged may include expertise, general situational reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation proceedings, information on crime prevention methods, training and advisory activities, support on individual criminal investigations. i believe that china is increasingly important as a source, destination and transit country in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitated illegal immigration, drug trafficking, crime, counterfeiting of euro, infringements of intellectual property rights, corruption in sport, as well as cybercrime and money laundering activities. i support this strategic cooperation agreement with china as it would support and strengthen the fight against organised crime and contribute to enhancing cooperation in the field of international law enforcement.
in writing. ‒ the eu and china are two of the biggest traders in the world. china is the eu’s second largest trading partner and the world’s second fastest growing economy. nevertheless, according to europol, china is increasingly relevant as both source and transit country for organised crime, such as human trafficking, drug related crimes, euro-counterfeiting, intellectual property rights infringements, sport corruption, money laundering and cybercrime. looking from this perspective, the strategic cooperation agreement between europol and china is of great importance because it would aid and reinforce the international fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing international law enforcement co-operation. last but not least, it will create a good environment for the development of relations between china and europe.
in writing. i support mr morris' report, as the conclusion of the present europol-china strategic cooperation agreement is of the utmost importance to the eu. the exchange of information on expertise, common situational reports, strategic analyses and information on criminal investigation proceedings will contribute to the fight against illegal migration, trafficking in human beings, organised crime and infringement of intellectual property rights. bulgaria is one of the countries that are the final or intermediate destination of chinese products infringing the intellectual property rights of world-renowned brands. in recent weeks alone, the customs agency has seized over 15,000 watches on suspicion that the items are counterfeit and infringe on the rights of over 25 trademarks. over 1,000 children's toys and 58,000 pairs of work gloves were also seized on suspicion of being counterfeit. the origin of the goods established by the invoices is the people's republic of china. i have supported this agreement because its conclusion would improve and strengthen the fight against organised crime and would contribute to enhancing cooperation in the field of international law enforcement.
in writing. – as a member of the delegation for relations with china in the european parliament i supported this implementing decision. its purpose is to authorise the conclusion of the mutual cooperation agreement between europol and china. i believe that it will benefit both parties as it involves the exchange of operational, strategic and technical information.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement, which underpins the european union's relations with 79 african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries, expires in 2020 the most comprehensive agreement the european union has signed with these countries. it institutionalises and gives a commercial and economic character to the relationship, as well as a political one, within the framework of the general assembly between the eu and the acp. i supported the resolution on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020 as it sets out what the future relationship between the two regions should be, namely to improve the efficiency of cooperation and adapt to the challenges of the 21st century. the resolution also calls for the fight against fraud, corruption, poverty and inequality to be eradicated and for the principle of developing country ownership of sustainable development initiatives and projects to be translated into a donor-recipient mentality.
in writing. ‒ acp-eu cooperation is a valuable and important achievement that has strengthened the ties between peoples, states and their parliaments over the past 40 years. adaptation to new challenges is needed to make the partnership between the two parties more effective. i call for the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) to be placed at the centre of the new agreement, and for strong monitoring mechanisms to be established to ensure that the implementation of the agreement contributes to and promotes the sdgs. i believe that cooperation should be in areas of common interest where mutual benefits can be expected, not only in economic terms, but also in terms of peace and security, human rights and the rule of law, good governance and democracy, migration, the environment, climate change and other areas related to the well-being of the acp and eu populations.
in writing. ‒ traditionally, acp-eu relations are on a good level. i supported the resolution, it is important to note that at the core of our current relations is the acp-eu cotonou agreement (2000-20), which aims to promote economic links, trade exchanges and political cooperation at different levels (national, regional and multi-regional). looking from this perspective, it could be argued that acp-eu cooperation is a valuable and unique achievement that has strengthened not only bonds between acp and eu peoples and countries but also has raised public awareness of development issues (promotion of sustainable development, eradication of poverty and inequalities). however, in order to improve the effectiveness of acp-eu cooperation and to address new global challenges such as climate change, poverty, inequalities, migration, peace and security, a new structure (agreement) should be adopted that maintains partnership and relations with the acp countries after 2020. the new agreement should primarily be a political project based on the principle of ownership and clearly leave behind the donor-recipient mentality. the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals (sdgs) would be placed at the centre of the new partnership in order to achieve better results when addressing global challenges.
in writing. the eu's relations with the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries are currently governed by the cotonou agreement, which expires in 2020. given that over 80% of the world's least developed countries are from the acp region and that africa in particular is showing signs of destabilisation that pose an immediate risk to european security, i believe that the form of cooperation between the eu and the acp should be renewed. the new form of cooperation, through the joint parliamentary assembly, should exercise effective control over the funds allocated to acp countries to avoid the possibility of local elites benefiting from them alone. moreover, greater autonomy should be given to local and regional governments and their capacity should be helped to be built so that they can participate in all stages of acp-eu activities from planning to implementation. only in this way will small producers and farmers and civil society be provided with a favourable environment for development and access to quality financing.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the relations between the eu and acp countries need adapt to the political, structural and demographic changes of recent years. in this regard, a framework needs to be established for implementing the new agenda 2030 and achieving the objectives of sustainable development. this report calls for the fight against poverty to remain an overarching objective of acp-eu cooperation.
the living conditions in the camp near calais are unacceptable and inhumane. the situation is tantamount to a humanitarian catastrophe. migrants and refugees lack access to basic needs, such as running water and food, and are at risk of various diseases. there are no laws. it's no coincidence that the camp outside the city is known as the "jungle". in this context, i consider that the decision of the french authorities to dismantle the camp by the end of the year is a short-term solution, because its inhabitants would be relocated elsewhere within the european union. in recent years, a number of temporary camps have been set up across europe, and their existence is a clear sign that we cannot find a sustainable solution to the migratory waves. i also call on the uk authorities to fully cooperate and fulfil their commitments to expedite the transfer of refugee children from migrant camps. the closure of the calais camp could lead to uncertainty for the survival of the hundreds of children living there, and the european union must not allow that to happen.
we are coming together today because europe is looking more and more like a project that lacks enthusiasm. everyone has expectations of the european union, but few have emotions. and we need the enthusiasm of young people to give strength to our project. europe very often looks like an autumn leaf, too exhausted by all the crises. only the enthusiasm of young people can turn the autumn of europe into a spring. through this freedom, young people must experience firsthand the meaning of a united europe, so that they are not so easily swayed by rumors of its untimely end. they're the ones who will most likely defend the project, and they need to know why. sometimes even one day is enough to make you feel something is worthwhile. if an 18-year-old spends even two days in another country, he will know that the absence of borders or their free movement within the european union is an important achievement and one that we must not lose. this free card seems like maybe a little something. yes, it doesn't solve our big problems in the middle east or our relationship with russia, for example, but it can change the lives of many people who will go out, who will blend in with the rest of the world, who will create connections and networks that they will need and will be useful to in the future. not all young europeans have the money to pay for this 'pass'. for many of them, europe is still a foreign country, and if this idea can bring down an iron curtain in front of them, then this project would be a great success.
in writing. mr president, high-quality and accessible connectivity for both citizens and european businesses is of paramount importance to realising the full potential of the digital single market. i am convinced that in the long term it is in the interests of all stakeholders to achieve our ultimate objective of a single market for telecommunications services. to achieve this, we need to work comprehensively by strengthening interinstitutional cooperation to find the right balance to tackle the fragmentation in the european union and deliver on the promise to european citizens to abolish eu roaming charges.
in writing. the proposal recently put forward by the european commission concerns the use of mobile services by mobile operators' customers when travelling abroad - to another country in the european union. the current proposal is in the right direction, but i strongly believe that it should be the occasion for measures to set a ceiling on the payment for mobile services that corresponds to the purchasing power of citizens. there was a report recently that said that the prepaid mobile users in my country, bulgaria, pay some of the highest prepaid mobile charges in the world. is that fair? roaming charges in countries outside the european union also remain extremely high. the mechanism currently being worked on by the ec also protects the interests of mobile operators, but can citizens be accused of abuse when national mobile operators charge disproportionate amounts for the use of their services? we must put an end to these forms of plunder and abuse of our citizens and introduce rules that prevent unprincipled and disproportionate charges being levied on them.
in writing. effective action at european level to combat the misuse of european funds requires effective measures, again at european level, to strengthen cooperation between member states in this area. even more important is to ensure that political and economic circles do not influence the investigations and prosecutions of such abuses. the european public prosecutor's office should be able to provide the necessary information to the european parliament and to the council, in particular on the basis of the information provided by the european public prosecutor's office. i believe that it should have broad and clear powers and competences, including in the fight against vat fraud, and that its independence from national prosecutors' offices should be guaranteed. at the same time, the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons must be protected, because this is the basis of any democratic and lawful investigation. i believe that the european public prosecutor's office will contribute to strengthening the fight against fraud involving european funds in bulgaria as well. it will help more money get to the people who really need it for entrepreneurship, agriculture, innovation. therefore, in the name of european and bulgarian prosperity, i call on the member states to reach an agreement and to accept the proposal for a european public prosecutor's office within the council, because the eu needs it.
in writing. ‒ the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important international agreement aimed at finding solutions in situations where the courts of two countries (in the case of parents of two different nationalities) declare themselves competent and each of them gives custody of the child to the parent who is its national. the convention establishes that the competent authorities are those where the child is resident. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been abducted. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area and therefore member states no longer act on their own. in this report i propose to give austria and romania the right to accept the accession of peru to this international agreement.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for peru's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. a major problem in cases of international child abduction is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries in cases of parental separation. the convention will help to find a solution at international level to such situations in order to avoid the subjective award of parental rights to the parent who is a national of the state of the court. the court having jurisdiction and the law applicable at the time of the adoption of the convention shall be that of the state in which the child is domiciled. i strongly support the establishment of a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a multilateral treaty, which seeks to protect children from the harmful effects of abduction and retention across international boundaries by providing a procedure to bring about their prompt return. the treaty has been ratified by all eu member states. in light of this, it is important to note that the eu now has exclusive external competence in this field as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13, which means that member states no longer act on their own account. however, the paradox is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. in this sense, a council decision is necessary to authorise the member states, in particular austria and romania, to accept the accession of peru. therefore, i call both the eu and member states to welcome and accept the accession of peru to the convention because in this manner children’s rights will be protected and preserved.
in writing. ‒ the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important international agreement aimed at finding solutions in situations where the courts of two countries (in the case of parents of two different nationalities) declare themselves competent and each of them gives custody of the child to the parent who is its national. the convention establishes that the competent authorities are those where the child is resident. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been abducted. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area and therefore member states no longer act on their own. the european union should authorise the member states to accept such accession upon the accession of kazakhstan to this convention. i advise in my report that it be accepted, kazakhstan is welcome to this convention.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for kazakhstan's accession to the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction. a major problem in such cases is the national bias of the legal systems of individual countries in the case of parental separation. the convention will help to find a solution at international level to such situations in order to avoid the subjective award of parental rights to the parent who is a national of the state of the court. the court having jurisdiction and the law applicable at the time of the adoption of the convention shall be that of the state in which the child is domiciled. i strongly support the establishment of a system to ensure the immediate return of abducted children.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a multilateral treaty, which seeks to protect children from the harmful effects of abduction and retention across international boundaries by providing a procedure to bring about their prompt return. the treaty has been ratified by all eu member states. in light of this, it is important to note that the eu now has exclusive external competence in this field as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13, which means that member states no longer act on their own account. however, the paradox is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. in this sense, a council decision is necessary to authorise the member states (except denmark, which is excluded from the union’s civil justice policy, and the netherlands which have already accepted the accession of kazakhstan) to accept the accession of kazakhstan. therefore, i call both the eu and member states to welcome and accept the accession of kazakhstan to the convention because in this manner children’s rights will be protected and preserved.
in writing. ‒ the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is an important international agreement aimed at finding solutions in situations where the courts of two countries (in the case of parents of two different nationalities) declare themselves competent and each of them gives custody of the child to the parent who is its national. the convention establishes that the competent authorities are those where the child is resident. the convention also establishes a system to ensure the immediate return of children who have been abducted. the eu now has exclusive external competence in this area and therefore member states no longer act on their own. the european union should authorise the member states to accept the accession of the republic of korea to this convention. i advise in my report that the republic of korea is welcome to this convention.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the convention establishes a system of cooperation among contracting states aimed at settling cases of international child abduction. in many cases, these problems arise because of a separation between parents. if the mother and father are from different countries, it is possible that one of them takes advantage of the lack of cooperation between these countries in order to secure the exercise of parental rights over the child. i welcome the accession of south korea to the convention. the commission, together with civil justice experts from the member states, has assessed the functioning of the judicial system of south korea and the country's readiness to implement the convention and considers it desirable that the convention enter into force between the european union and south korea. i support this because the hague convention system works more effectively when more countries join it. there is a significant korean community in europe, which increases the importance of the acceptance of this accession.
in writing. ‒ the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a multilateral treaty, which seeks to protect children from the harmful effects of abduction and retention across international boundaries by providing a procedure to bring about their prompt return. the treaty has been ratified by all eu member states. in light of this, it is important to note that the eu now has exclusive external competence in this field as confirmed by the court of justice in opinion 1/13, which means that member states no longer act on their own account. however, the paradox is that the convention does not provide for autonomous action by international organisations. in this sense, a council decision is necessary to authorise the member states (except denmark, which is excluded from the union’s civil justice policy, and czechia, ireland and lithuania, which have already accepted the accession of south korea) to accept the accession of south korea. therefore, i call both the eu and member states to welcome and accept the accession of south korea to the convention because in this manner children’s rights will be protected and preserved.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for the resolution as a whole. however, i have voted against some additions because they are not in line with the overall aim to increase the productivity of smallholders and achieve sustainable agriculture and food systems that are capable of feeding an expected global population of 8.5 billion people, in particular because it calls on the commission to increase investments on nutrition-specific interventions. i support the proposals to better involve the private sector in order to tackle the main issues more efficiently. at the same time i welcome the approach to focus on the importance of context-specific national targets, as they differ greatly and a one-size-fits-all approach will not solve the problem. therefore, i support this initiative.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the next steps to achieve the eu's global goals and commitments on food and food security in the world, as this is one of the main and most important goals of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. addressing the problem of malnutrition and undernutrition is a long-term commitment of the eu. the main prerequisite for eradicating hunger is to find a balance in the field of nutrition by ensuring food security, quality food and identifying the needs of the countries concerned. i believe that coordination in aid, financing and investment between the eu and other global partners and donors will lead to concrete positive results. i support the proposal to encourage, support and assist farmers, especially small and local farmers, who provide much of the world's food and at the same time support the labour market. making agriculture sustainable, increasing funding for farmers in less developed regions and using innovation in this area will boost productivity and help tackle the food problem.
in writing. ‒ fighting hunger is a priority enshrined in the millennium development goals. as the world population continues to grow, much more effort and innovation will be urgently needed in order to sustainably increase agricultural production, improve the global supply chain, decrease food losses and waste, and ensure that all who are suffering from hunger and malnutrition have access to nutritious food. the eu is a champion among donors in the eradication of hunger and malnutrition and is committed to reduce the numbers of people who face hunger and malnutrition by at least 7 million by 2025. however, progress in reducing malnutrition remains too slow; 795 million people in the world currently do not get enough food to lead a decent and active life. therefore, the eu should continue to support and invest in smallholder farmers to boost food production, achieve nutrition security and sustainable agriculture. in addition to this, the eu should assist smallholder farmers in the development and access to local markets, local value chain and local food processing facilities. in order to facilitate the process even further the union should provide education and training to smallholder farmers.
in writing. i supported the resolution because i believe that more responsible and long-term financial measures for food security and nutrition are needed. i support the idea of reinvesting in local food production, targeting in particular small-scale food producers and agro-environmental practices, and i believe this is a key condition for the success of food strategies. progress in the fight against malnutrition remains insufficient, given that 795 million people in the world do not have enough food to lead a dignified and active life. this figure is shocking given that the eu alone throws away 88 million tonnes of food a year. inadequate nutrition in the first 1,000 days of a child's life has critical health, social and economic consequences. given that 161 million children worldwide suffer from chronic malnutrition, i believe that the role of the european institutions on this issue is quite responsible for taking long-term and effective measures to provide a better way of life for people who today suffer from food and water scarcity. i believe that the creation of social protection schemes that will ensure that all individuals have access to nutritious food at all times is of paramount importance.
in writing. – i supported this resolution as i believe it will be an added value to the fight against under-nutrition and hunger. eradicating hunger and malnutrition is a long-term commitment of the eu, which has the ambition to be a global leader on the path towards the achievement of sustainable development goal 2 of the agenda 2030 (ending hunger by 2030). the resolution underlines that local food production should be given priority in actions against under-nutrition and stresses the importance of supporting smallholder and female farmers as food producers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust. it is based on two oral questions by the libe committee on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office (article 86 tfeu) and the possible reform of eurojust. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office touches on the subject of member states' sovereignty, as its purpose will be to investigate and punish financial fraud and other crimes affecting the financial interest of the eu. at present, only the national authorities of the member states have such powers within their territories, and existing european agencies such as olaf, europol and eurojust do not have the powers to conduct a european investigation. my group and i believe that at this stage the best results in the fight against crime affecting the eu's financial interests can be achieved at national level and through the existing frameworks for coordination and cooperation between member states.
in writing. mr president, europe is facing transnational challenges more than ever. to tackle terrorism, organised crime, cybercrime and money laundering, it is necessary to adapt the european judicial framework to the needs of the present day by strengthening the role of europol and eurojust and by creating a functioning and effective european public prosecutor's office to support the efforts of national authorities and to improve the exchange of information and cooperation between them. i therefore call on the council to examine the remaining problematic and contentious points with regard to the european commission's proposal for a regulation establishing a european public prosecutor's office, the proposal for a directive on combating fraud affecting the financial interests of the union and the proposal for a regulation on the eurojust agency for criminal justice cooperation, and to proceed to the adoption of decisions in this regard as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, as it is crucial that the eu and its member states detect and prosecute fraud affecting the eu's financial interests in an effective and dissuasive manner, thus protecting the taxpayers of all member states contributing to the union budget. organised cross-border crime has increased over the past decade and is committed by highly mobile groups operating in multiple member states and committing different types of crime. in this context, i welcome parliament's support for the establishment of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office (eppo) in order to reduce the existing fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the eu budget, thereby strengthening the fight against fraud in the european union. the eppo should be able to exercise its powers in accordance with the applicable law. the european public prosecutor's office should be able to provide the necessary support to the eppo in the event of a dispute arising from the use of the national unit.
in writing. ‒ back in 2013, the commission presented a proposal to reform eurojust, together with a proposal to establish a european public prosecutor’s office (eppo). in general, the commission’s proposal for the establishment of eppo aims to provide support to eurojust in the fight against fraud to the eu. thus, it also aims to increase the democratic legitimacy of eurojust. close cooperation between eurojust and the future eppo on an operational and administrative level is essential to ensure effective and efficient work in practice. in this context, compatible provisions in both regulations are essential for legal certainty and consistency and will help to realise the full potential of eurojust and the eppo. moreover, in order to ensure judicial coordination from the outset of investigations and prosecutions, eurojust and the eppo should inform each other of relevant cases. therefore, strong information exchange between eurojust and eppo should be developed.
in writing. ‒ at the beginning of october, we reaffirmed the european parliament's support for the creation of an effective and independent european public prosecutor's office, which aims to reduce the existing fragmentation of national law enforcement efforts to protect the eu budget. on average, nearly €500 million is lost from the european budget every year as a result of alleged abuses, with the cross-border element often hindering quality investigations at national level. member states need the action of an effective supranational body to work together with national prosecutors and to intervene specifically in cases concerning the misuse of european funds. it is important to clarify the relationship between eurojust and the future european public prosecutor's office, and in particular the implications of the creation of a collegiate structure, as well as the actions of the european public prosecutor's office in relation to olaf, in order to distinguish between their respective roles in the protection of the financial interests of the eu. the majority of my colleagues and i also stressed the need to ensure sufficient budget and to guarantee the financial independence of the future european public prosecutor's office. the eppo should be able to exercise its judicial control over the operational decisions of the eppo before the competent national court and should be able to have them reviewed by the court of justice in luxembourg, in order to ensure the necessary oversight and democratic control.
in writing. i supported the european parliament resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust, as i believe it is necessary to ensure better protection of the eu's financial interests and more effective prosecution of multiple crimes. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office should also lead to the establishment of adequate safeguards ensuring the independence of that office, such as a provision allowing for a derogation from the national unit on grounds relating to the proper functioning of the european public prosecutor's office. the european public prosecutor's office will increase the trust of citizens and businesses in the european institutions. the eppo will also be responsible for the implementation of the union's financial instruments, including the union's budget, and for the implementation of the union's budget. cooperation between eurojust, europol and the european anti-fraud office already exists, but there are still numerous problems and limitations in coordination, cooperation and exchange of information due to the division of responsibilities between bodies belonging to different territorial and functional jurisdictions. the misuse of eu funds is estimated at around 500 million euros a year, which is why we need to take a stronger stance against the perpetrators by creating a strong prosecutor's office.
in writing. ‒ i voted abstention on the resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the context of the recent alstom and katterpilar cases, as this type of resolution is largely interventionist in the internal affairs of member states and businesses. the case of the closure of branches and factories of these large enterprises is really worrying and many people will lose their jobs, but i am not sure if the european parliament would have noticed a similar case if it had happened in bulgaria or another smaller member state and without such a big international media response.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's motion for a resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in the context of the recent alstom and caterpillar cases. i believe that this document represents a strong political message of solidarity and support from the european union to the workers in these enterprises. this resolution would contribute to the effective implementation of the europe 2020 programme, which provides for each eu country to achieve a 20% share of gdp coming from industry.
in writing. ‒ in light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases, the first point that needs to be taken into account is that the eu should immediately mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egaf) in order to support workers who lost their jobs and give them new opportunities to reintegrate into the labour market. furthermore, the eu and its member states should find a common vision for european industry because the sector is shrinking and cannot maintain its global competitiveness. today european industrial production accounts 24% of world production while during the 1990s it accounted for 36%. unfortunately, declining industry (deindustrialisation) of europe has resulted in job losses for employees, failure of smes and economic decline. therefore, the eu should develop consistent and comprehensive industrial policy, which aims to reindustrialise europe. importantly, reindustrialisation of europe should be based on digitalisation (in particular the integration of smart technologies and robotics into industrial value chains), sustainability, energy efficiency and adequate resources. member states should join efforts and facilitate the emergence of joint industrial projects. in general, reindustrialisation of the eu will create jobs, economic growth and regional integration.
in writing. the dismissal of over two thousand workers at the caterpillar plant in belgium and the prospect of further job losses at the alstrom plant in france are illustrative of the need for a european reindustrialisation policy. the eu needs more than ever an industrial policy that is not driven by short-term financial results to the detriment of attracting investment in innovation and ensuring long-term employment for european citizens. that is why i supported this resolution, which calls on the commission and the member states to develop a strategy for a comprehensive industrial policy in key sectors such as rail transport equipment. i share the view that rail transport is a strong and innovative sector that not only creates many jobs but is also environmentally friendly and fully compatible with the eu's climate and energy objectives. especially in bulgaria, the railway transport, which the current government continues to neglect at the expense of the construction of highways, this proposal can create an opportunity to finance projects and increase employment in our country, which in recent decades has also been heavily affected by deindustrialization.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to the closure of the caterpillar plant in belgium, which would result in the collective redundancies of over 2000 employees and put an additional 7,000 jobs at risk, and to the closure of the caterpillar 'monkstown' plant in newtownabbey, northern ireland, which would result in the loss of 250 jobs. the report calls on the commission to mobilise the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund rapidly to reintegrate workers made redundant by caterpillar. it also calls on the commission and the member states to ensure better access to finance for eu businesses, especially micro and smes. we need a long-term vision for european industry.
it is clear that the conflict in syria is hurting first the citizens of that country and second the nations of the european union, who have suffered from the unprecedented wave of migration generated by that war. but it seems that no one in this room is seriously condemning the criminal behavior of two other countries besides the ones mentioned that are involved in this conflict, namely saudi arabia and turkey. for those who don't know, let me remind or say, the two dictatorial regimes in riyadh and ankara are directly involved in the war crimes in syria through military occupation and invasion and through supporting the barbaric, anti-humanist groups, terrorist organizations like the islamic state and an-nusra. fellas, the gross hypocrisy is someone pretending to care about the victims of war while continuing to sell weapons to riyadh and paying bribes and kickbacks to ankara. one-sidedness, propaganda are detrimental to the understanding of this war and to finding the right solution. it is time for everyone in this room to understand that neither the turkish, nor the saudi, nor the russian interests in syria are the interests of the syrian people, nor the citizens of the european union.
that's right, mr. secretary, as you said at the beginning, syria is the greatest humanitarian disaster of our time and it's getting worse. unfortunately, the european union, mr. minister, has no plan whatsoever to stop the violence. it is a pity that we hear from the extreme left and the extreme right the voice of one of the parties responsible for the crash. the provision of humanitarian aid is necessary, but it is not enough. the european union must have the authority and the power to impose, together with our partners, a plan for peace and an end to barbarism. the syrian people must be given hope for the future, for a possible life after this terrible war in syria. until we find a way to prevent the causes of the migration pressure in syria, the pressure on our external borders will continue. europe must speak with one voice and that voice must be heard. the crisis in syria, like terrorism, does not remain confined within its borders. therefore, to successfully address these challenges, we need a common european security and defence architecture that complements our commitment to nato and a pan-european intelligence exchange. the majority of european citizens want this to be a european union security and defence policy, more shared defence capabilities, joint projects, joint armaments and training of military personnel, european peacekeeping missions, joint headquarters and european forces. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the european union's external borders, and to extend the scope of the regulation to include the european union's external borders. the decision to tackle the migration crisis must be taken in a spirit of conscious responsibility and unity. solidarity is a two-way street. the countries on the european union's external borders cannot bear the brunt of unprecedented migration flows.
mr. chairman, i just got back from colombia. europe must respect and accept the decision of the colombian people. even with a little, the agreement between the government and the farc was rejected, but not peace. for now, the fire must stop, and that is the hope. i've met with dozens of victims of the drug cartels. the people want peace, but they want it fair. president uribe was leading the "no vote" campaign. he was a symbol of the war against crime and corruption. uribe thinks the settlement is too lenient for ex-murderers and ex-criminals. and so the people of colombia obviously think. uribe, before me, has declared farc the richest crime cartel in the world. peace is an option for colombia, but europe must realise that it cannot grant amnesty to criminals responsible for 300,000 murders and tens of millions of victims of drug trafficking worldwide. nothing ends with a vote. more efforts are needed to integrate the pseudo-terrorists and eliminate farc.
the peace agreement between the colombian government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia is historic, not only because it is an attempt to end the longest conflict in the western hemisphere, but because it restores our faith that peace is possible even in protracted and seemingly intractable conflicts like this one, in which over 300,000 people have been killed and over 5 million internally and externally displaced. its importance is also underlined by the decision taken to nominate colombia for the nobel peace prize. that is why the result of the referendum, in which the agreement was rejected by 50,000 votes, is a source of great disappointment for us. not only for those who have worked for years to resolve this conflict, but also for the thousands of families on both sides of the conflict who have been victims of it. all those involved in the colombian peace negotiations owe it to the victims and their families to ensure that the fragile hope for peace is not lost. we must not allow the violence, the killings and the kidnappings to start again. achieving a lasting peace in colombia will unlock the country's great economic potential, strengthen its contacts with the european union and make it a pillar of stability in latin america. the peace process is a historic opportunity not only for colombia but also for the global war on drug trafficking, as the country still remains the world's largest exporter of cocaine, by eliminating coca plantations in farc-controlled regions of the country, while helping farmers to start growing alternative non-drug crops. the referendum is lost for now, but i hope peace will be won.
in writing. the security situation in the democratic republic of congo continues to deteriorate. since the regime's fall in 1997, the country has been in a constant civil war that has so far claimed over 5 million lives. due to the lack of any conditions, people live in extreme misery and poverty, and the war even changed the role of women and children. they have to fight on the front lines and face the harsh reality every day, being victims of direct attacks and violence by the warring parties. along with the military conflict in the country, in recent days dozens of people have died in clashes between protesters and security forces. president kabila's undemocratic maneuvers to stay in power have unleashed a new wave of violence and the international community must stand up to it. i call for full respect for human rights and protection of the civilian population, and for the provision of opportunities for broad participation of civil society in the political processes of the country. only then will the drc be on the path to democracy.
in writing. thanks to eu ratification, there are no longer any obstacles to the entry into force of the paris agreement in time for the cop 22 climate change conference in marrakech from 7 to 18 november 2016. the agreement marks a truly historic breakthrough in international climate negotiations, because for the first time all 195 countries have agreed to a legally binding target to reduce emissions to a level that will keep global warming below 2°c. the eu is a leader in climate policy and the largest financial donor globally, but we cannot tackle this global problem alone. if the eu is the only one committed to certain commitments, our competitiveness and industry will suffer. it is also important that ambitious carbon reduction targets do not lead to an increase in our dependence on imported energy sources. it is important to move now to implement collective global commitments to accelerate the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resilient global economy. early ratification will allow the eu to participate fully in the first meeting of the parties to the marrakesh agreement, which will set the parameters for the implementation of the commitments.
thank you to mrs. hautala for the comprehensive report. the application of european union law by the member states is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the union legal order. in this way, we will strengthen the trust and confidence of our citizens in the union's objectives. in 2014, the environment and transport remained among the areas where the highest number of new infringement proceedings were brought. one reason for non-compliance is the unrealistic deadlines for implementing the legislation. they have an impact on the timely application of european legislation. in this context, i believe that the european institutions should agree on more appropriate deadlines for the implementation of regulations and directives, taking due account of the necessary monitoring and consultation periods. clearer and more understandable legislation will also help to ensure better and more efficient enforcement. in this respect, the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making is a step in the right direction. we see that eu pilot is also proving useful and has a positive impact in promoting more effective implementation of european union law. however, the european commission needs to improve transparency and provide sufficient information to the european parliament on pending dossiers. finally, i would like to draw attention to the fact that we are once again calling on the european commission to submit a legislative proposal on the administrative procedural law of the european union, taking into account the measures taken so far in this area by the european parliament and the document we have drawn up in the working group on administrative law.
in writing. ‒ i have supported the resolution despite the fact that i disagreed with some of the proposed additions. the motion for resolution and oq are designed to ensure continued monitoring of the implementation and implications of ifrs 9 which will come into force in january 2018. i support the continued scrutiny of ifrs 9 and its implementation and therefore i have supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the situation in syria because i believe that the european union is the one that suffers most from the conflict in syria, which is being flooded by hundreds of thousands of illegal refugees, many of whom are not syrians at all. turkey has a vested interest in continuing the conflict, which aims to weaken the assad regime and seize large areas of syria, while also having leverage to blackmail the european union for even more money and visa-free travel. the conflict in syria and the subsequent refugee influx have triggered irreversible geopolitical processes such as the disintegration of the european union and the withdrawal of the united kingdom. our only chance to stop this process is to seal our external borders, to prevent new refugees from entering and to return all those who have entered and are staying in the union illegally. the european union must start defending its own interests, not the economic or political interests of individual countries like germany, turkey or saudi arabia.
in writing. the situation in syria continues to deteriorate and the prospects for lasting peace are fading. the failure of yet another ceasefire agreement has only reinforced the thesis that the peace process in the country is possible only with a full consensus between the warring parties, without the participation of the dictator assad, but also with the unity of the international community. in this complex international environment, the eu must use all its diplomatic and humanitarian resources to prevent the human horror in aleppo, where more than 250,000 people are suffering surrounded by the forces of bashar al-assad and hezbollah. these innocent victims have no access to clean water, food, or medical care, and they are subjected to constant artillery fire and military bombardment. in this context, i welcome the decision of the european commission to create an emergency humanitarian initiative for aleppo, which would allow humanitarian organisations to help the thousands of suffering civilians. i believe that all parties to the conflict will support this initiative in the name of humanity, but also for peace and the future of syria and the region.
in writing. the recent events in syria, and in particular in aleppo, have once again put important international players in a situation of conflict with each other. i would like to remind you that this situation is detrimental both to the syrian citizens who are directly affected by the conflict, and to the countries that will have to cope with increased migratory pressure, which they are not responsible for, but because of geographical proximity are on the front line when it comes to illegal migrants from conflict regions. one of those countries is my country, bulgaria. i am convinced that a lasting solution to the conflict in syria, and to the resulting refugee crisis, is directly linked to the cooperation of the countries participating in the international syria support group, which includes the eu, russia, the united states, china, turkey, egypt, iran and saudi arabia. in supporting this motion for a resolution, i call on these countries to overcome their differences and to think about the syrian people and the whole impact that this situation has on the eu as a whole. the instability in syria means even more insecurity and problems in general, but mostly on countries directly affected by it, like my country bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this resolution. overall, i support some of the points it addresses, such as the need to ratify the paris accord, the emerging role of international ets and the limiting of the harmful effects of carbon leakage. however, through the adoption of additional text, it is also calling for increased eu 2030 ambition and setting targets even higher, earmarking ets revenues and an ftt. these goals are not in line with market realities and member states’ capacity to fulfil the requirements. therefore, such unrealistic targets will only result in the continued sanctioning of member states, instead of setting achievable goals as incentives. i believe that a lot more work needs to be done before i can support this resolution.
in writing. – it is pleasing that the ep is ratifying the unfcc paris agreement (cop21) on fighting climate change, the first ever universal, legally binding global climate deal. thus, the eu will join the us, china and india, other global players and major greenhouse gas emitters at 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh, morocco (cop22). the climate change is a key priority for the eu. in fact, the eu is working hard to cut greenhouse gas emissions substantially while encouraging other nations and regions to do likewise. the eu’s continued focus on climate diplomacy shows the eu’s capacity to support the implementation of cop21 commitments, but also emphasises eu’s ability to influence cop22. in this regard, on 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh the eu should push the international community (parties to the paris agreement) to adopt without delay concrete measures, including a timetable, environmentally or economically harmful subsidies, for reduction of fossil fuels. in this context, the eu should insist from the international community an increase in the contribution of renewable energy to all energy consumption.
in writing. in 2014, several severe floods hit my country bulgaria. over 207,000 acres of farmland were affected, and hundreds of farmers' crops were destroyed. and while there were financial compensations for that, i believe that's not the long-term solution. this painful example from my country and thousands of others around the world shows that global warming is real and it's high time for measures and actions that will prevent or at least mitigate climate change. the eu's target of reducing emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels is ambitious, but it should not become a filter for even more stringent requirements for the european farmer and producer. i supported this resolution, but i strongly believe that the sector that provides food for all and sustenance for many cannot be a bargaining chip in shaping the goals of the world. i therefore call on the council, in the run-up to the marrakesh conference and the mid-term review of the cap, to ensure that the negotiations and the roadmap to achieve the global targets do not come at the expense of the european farmer. the vicious practice of farmers paying the bill for eu geopolitical decisions must end.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution as it aims to define the position of the european parliament in view of the cop22 climate conference in november 2016 in marrakesh. the resolution addresses important issues such as the urgency to ratify and implement the paris agreement, the pre-2020 ambition and the kyoto protocol, the priority negotiation points in cop22, the role of non-state actors, the comprehensive effort of all sectors, the reduction of non-co2 emissions, climate finance, climate resilience through adaptation, and climate diplomacy, among other issues overall, the resolution welcomes the paris climate agreement as a landmark achievement for combating climate change and for multilateralism.
in writing. i supported the report by ms shaldemose on the application of the regulation on materials intended to come into contact with foodstuffs, as i believe that materials not regulated by specific eu measures can pose a risk to public health and lead to a loss of consumer confidence. the adoption of uniform measures on food quality will help to protect the environment and the proper functioning of the internal market. there is uncertainty regarding the identification of all materials that are intended to come into contact with food and may pose a risk to the quality of the products. traceability of materials should be ensured at all stages of the supply chain in order to facilitate control, withdrawal of defective products, information to consumers and determination of liability. i share the idea of establishing uniform eu standards for the analytical testing of certain categories of materials and products intended to come into contact with food. such a system would facilitate the application of the legal framework by all member states and would also help to consolidate the free movement of already controlled products between member states.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as i believe it will benefit the eu citizens by making food contact materials safer. the report points out the need to urgently tackle current shortcomings in the implementation and enforcement of the legislation in place. according to the report, the focus should, in particular, be on risk assessment and traceability as well as enforcement and controls.
angel jambazki (ecr), in writing. ‒ i voted 'abstention' on the 2014 annual report on monitoring the application of union law. despite some positive aspects contained in it, the proposals for the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality were not taken into account. i consider them to be among the fundamental principles of european law and the assessment of their application is an integral part of the application of eu law.
in writing. ‒ i support the annual report on monitoring the application of union law. i am pleased that the report's findings indicate that there has been a decline in criminal proceedings as a result of the introduction of the commission's 'eu pilot' initiative. i join the call in the report for more transparency in the application of eu law. i call on the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to continue to monitor impartially compliance with, and the correct and timely application of, european legislation, as this creates confidence among european citizens in the effective functioning of the institutions in defence of their interests. however, i would also like to express my concern and call on the commission to pay particular attention to the still existing administrative and legislative obstacles to the full exercise of minority languages in some member states, as eu language policies aim to protect linguistic diversity, which is enshrined among the eu values in the provisions of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the thirty-second annual report on monitoring the application of union law, which contains important information on the actual implementation and practical application of eu law. the report shows that the environment, transport and the internal market and services are the policy areas for which the highest number of infringement proceedings were initiated in 2014. it is also stressed that the number of formal infringement proceedings has decreased over the last five years. this reflects the effectiveness of the dialogue with the member states in the context of the eu pilot procedure. however, the european parliament should have better access to information on preliminary ruling procedures and pending cases. the proposal made by the new administrative law working party of the committee on legal affairs shows that the european union's administrative procedure regulation would be both useful and feasible. the european parliament can and should play a more structured role in analysing the way in which acceding countries and countries which have concluded association agreements with the european union comply with eu law and in developing appropriate support for these countries in this regard.
in writing. i supported mrs hautala's motion for a european parliament resolution because i believe that the european parliament needs to be better informed about the application of eu law in order to be able to better fulfil its role as co-legislator and to ensure that its legislative work is improved. the creation of a procedure within parliament reflecting the application of eu law in individual member states would be an effective way of analysing non-compliance in a country-specific way. although the number of proceedings decreased in 2014, underlining the effectiveness of the eu pilot procedure, the areas where the application of eu law remains problematic are environment, transport and internal market and services. parliament still has limited access to information on this procedure, so it cannot really establish whether the reduced number of cases actually reflects better application of eu law or is some kind of arrangement between the defaulting states and the commission. the implementation of eu law is still not sufficiently transparent, which is why i support the idea of drawing up a regulation on administrative procedure that would be useful and would facilitate the practical application of eu law.
in writing. – the annual report stresses that the number of formal infringement procedures has decreased in the last five years, which reflects the effectiveness of the dialogue with member states in the context of the eu pilot procedure. however, since the european parliament still has rather little access to information about the eu pilot procedure and pending cases, it is difficult to evaluate to what extent the reduction in formal infringement procedures actually reflects better compliance with eu law by member states. for this reason i voted in favour of this report, which could provide valuable inspiration for the commission as it shows that a regulation on the administrative procedure of the union’s own administration would be both useful and feasible to enact.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection because i am against the use of gmos and the placing on the market of genetically modified goods. in addition, in the case at hand, robust data on risk assessment and impact assessment methods are lacking, which puts their safety in question.
in writing. ‒ today in the plenary i supported the objections to the placing on the market of genetically modified maize. the european commission is being asked to come up with a new legislative proposal to strengthen democratic control over the authorisation of gmo products. at present, decisions to authorise gmos are taken by the european commission without being supported by member states' opinions. this was originally intended as an exception to the procedure, but unfortunately it has become the rule. the cultivation of genetically modified maize is prohibited in the territory of: austria, belgium (wallonia), bulgaria, germany (except for research purposes), greece, denmark, italy, cyprus, latvia, lithuania, luxembourg, malta, the united kingdom (northern ireland, wales, scotland), poland, slovenia, france, the netherlands and croatia. i join those of my colleagues who find that the european commission's proposal to market these gmos exceeds its executive powers and must be withdrawn.
in writing. i supported this resolution, initiated by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that without an effective control mechanism within the internal market which can ensure that products which are banned for cultivation in a member state do not present a danger and do not contravene that ban or pose a risk of infringement, the authorisation of the placing on the market of seeds from that banned crop cannot and should not be granted. for bt11 maize seed, there are effective prohibitions on its cultivation in the territory of 19 member states. one of those countries is my bulgaria. the bulgarian public is strongly against the use of such crops. the single european market can only function when its conditions are accepted by all its participants without risk of violating their legal and moral laws. this culture does not meet those criteria.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection because i am against the use of gmos and the placing on the market of genetically modified goods. in addition, in the case at hand, there is a lack of robust data on risk assessment and impact assessment methods, which calls safety into question.
in writing. i supported this resolution, initiated by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that without an effective control mechanism within the internal market which can ensure that products which are banned for cultivation in a member state do not present a danger and do not contravene that ban or pose a risk of infringement, the authorisation of the placing on the market of seeds from that banned crop cannot and should not be granted. the seeds of genetically modified maize 1507 (das-ø15ø7-1) are subject to effective prohibitions on its cultivation in the territory of 19 member states. one of those countries is my bulgaria. the bulgarian public is strongly against the use of such crops. the single european market can only function when its conditions are accepted by all its participants without risk of violating their legal and moral laws. this culture does not meet those criteria.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection because i am against the use of gmos and the placing on the market of genetically modified goods. in addition, there is a lack of robust data on risk assessment and impact assessment methods in the relevant case, which calls safety into question.
in writing. i supported this resolution, initiated by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that without an effective control mechanism within the internal market which can ensure that products which are banned for cultivation in a member state do not present a danger and do not contravene that ban or pose a risk of infringement, the authorisation of the placing on the market of seeds from that banned crop cannot and should not be granted. the cultivation of genetically modified maize mon 810 is prohibited in the territory of 19 eu member states. one of those countries is my country, bulgaria. the bulgarian public is strongly against the use of such crops. the single european market can only function when its conditions are accepted by all its participants without risk of violating their legal and moral laws. this culture does not meet those criteria.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection because i am against the use of gmos and the placing on the market of genetically modified goods. in addition, there is a lack of robust data on risk assessment and impact assessment methods in the relevant case, which calls safety into question.
in writing. i supported this resolution, initiated by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that without an effective control mechanism within the internal market which can ensure that products which are banned for cultivation in a member state do not present a danger and do not contravene that ban or pose a risk of infringement, the authorisation of the placing on the market of seeds from that banned crop cannot and should not be granted. the bulgarian public is strongly opposed to the use of genetically modified crops such as the gmo maize mon 810. the single european market can only function when its conditions are accepted by all its participants without risk of violating their legal and moral laws. the impact of genetically modified organisms and their products on human health remains insufficiently studied and researched, and i therefore believe that the marketing of such products on the european single market is not appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection because i am against the use of gmos and the placing on the market of genetically modified goods. in addition, there is a lack of robust data on risk assessment and impact assessment methods in the relevant case, which calls safety into question.
in writing. i supported this resolution, initiated by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that without an effective control mechanism within the internal market which can ensure that products which are banned for cultivation in a member state do not present a danger and do not contravene that ban or pose a risk of infringement, the authorisation of the placing on the market of seeds from that banned crop cannot and should not be granted. the bulgarian public is strongly opposed to the use of genetically modified crops, such as products containing, consisting of or produced from genetically modified cotton. the following table lists the quantities of the products listed in annex ii to regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 that are subject to the additional duty: the single european market can only function when its conditions are accepted by all its participants without risk of violating their legal and moral laws. the impact of genetically modified organisms and their products on human health remains insufficiently studied and researched, and i therefore believe that the marketing of such products on the european single market is not appropriate.
member of the commission. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange and i thank the honourable members for speaking so clearly. from this debate i conclude that we all share a common interest in ensuring that the joint comprehensive plan of action works for all sides and ultimately that balanced bilateral relations can lead to iran’s reintegration into the international community, politically, economically and socially, as well as to building a more constructive real environment. let me reiterate that we are set to pursue this agenda of balance and incremental engagement, contingent upon the implementation of the joint comprehensive plan of action. but we know that implementation is an ongoing task and we need to be diligent and vigilant in our joint efforts throughout the lifetime of the agreement. many members have referred to the important issue of human rights. major differences on some issues persist, but we have an opportunity to engage with an influential political player, not least on issues on which we disagree. human rights remain a matter of concern for the european union, especially the high number of executions, including those of juvenile offenders and political prisoners. i would like to close by expressing, once again, my appreciation of parliament’s role in bringing this important issue to the agenda. i would like, finally, also to repeat my thanks to mr howitt for all the work that he has done on this report. we wish him every success in the future.
in writing. sanctions were serious political hypocrisy and double standards. the eu continues to trade with saudi arabia and turkey, where gross human rights violations are a bloody daily occurrence. the signing of the iran deal is a huge step forward in normalizing our relations with that country. iran is a country with enormous economic potential and deep traditions, the only stable country in a volatile region. iran can be an important partner for the eu. this normalisation of relations must be based on mutual respect and respect for the internal order and the right of each sovereign state to build its society on the basis of its traditions. any so-called 'comprehensive agreement' with iran that would require it to change its structure and traditions or abandon its interests in the region and on the international stage is completely unacceptable, disrespectful and doomed to failure. such a failure is not in the eu's interest, but only in the interest of the dangerous and dictatorial regimes in turkey and saudi arabia. that's why i'm voting against this resolution.
in writing. the ten-t trans-european transport network provides a key infrastructure to boost european tourism. the development of tourism in europe depends mainly on the capacity of member states to invest in infrastructure and in the creation of safe and secure transport for their tourists. for bulgaria, the development of rail and road infrastructure and the promotion of multimodal transport are key to the development of tourism. the construction of intermodal transport to reach tourist destinations will create easier access to more sites and will help a more diverse target group of tourists. it is important to target 'smart investments' based on realistic funding opportunities.
the committee on budgets mr president, the ceta negotiations with canada were concluded more than two years ago. in the meantime, the european commission has received a clear signal from europeans that mechanisms such as arbitration tribunals, existing in their current form, are not acceptable. but, nevertheless, we are faced with the same mechanism in the same form, which the europeans do not want. with its decision last week, the walloon parliament proved to be the only one listening to the demands of its citizens, and that is commendable. canada is the fifth largest producer of gmo foods in the world. in this free trade reality, this will lead to the entry of gmo products and raw materials without the knowledge and willingness of europeans. canada still requires and discriminates against my fellow citizens when it comes to visas. it is irresponsible for a country whose citizens enjoy visa-free travel throughout the european union and which wants to deepen its relations with europe to make the visa-free regime conditional on signing the ceta. and in that regard, i urge the bulgarian prime minister not to sign the agreement with canada.
mr. chairman, the reason for this statement is yet another provocation perpetrated by turkish president recep tayyip erdogan. in addition to continuously provoking the bulgarian state border with illegal immigrants, who we have recently found in train cargo compositions, mr. erdogan delivered a speech for the second time, in which he directly stated territorial claims to countries that are members of the european union and nato. we're talking about the republic of bulgaria and the republic of greece. the cities of kardzhali and thessalonica, which are part of the territories of bulgaria and greece, were mentioned by name. erdogan mentioned that he could not speak to his heart and did not distinguish between adrian, kardzhali, thessaloniki, skopje and other cities. this is an insurmountable, impossible territorial claim for us. we strongly object to this behavior and wonder why other colleagues from other groups do not condemn these outright territorial claims. this behaviour of the turkish dictator is yet another reason to say that turkey has no place in the european union because it is not a european country.
the european union today is full of examples of how much we need the mechanism we are discussing. from restrictions on media freedom and ambiguous constitutional reforms, to discrimination in terms of worker mobility, to the ban on the use of mother tongues in election campaigns. europe is at a crossroads and needs to rethink and dust off the values on which it is built. the mechanism for democracy - the rule of law and fundamental rights - would be the necessary restart. i think it is particularly important that it will also replace fragmented eu instruments, such as the cooperation and verification mechanism, which has been applied for 10 years only to bulgaria and romania, with clear and objective criteria for all member states and thus remove the double standard in the assessment of the two countries.
madam president, the democracy, rule of law and fundamental human rights mechanism is a very important instrument that will ensure that the democratic values on which the european union is built are protected in all member states. it will ensure that countries are on an equal footing and propose pan-european solutions. i believe that this mechanism will strengthen the foundations of democracy and thus help us to overcome the euroscepticism and populism of recent years. for my country bulgaria, this mechanism is extremely important because it will not only replace the mechanism of cooperation and verification that we have imposed, but it will also remove the unjustified stigmas on us that are generated by this kind of discrimination. the cooperation and verification mechanism has been misused repeatedly to point the finger at us for problems that exist in all member states. it is also a completely wrong obstacle to our membership of schengen. i therefore believe that the democracy and rule of law mechanism, with its objective evaluation criteria, will make it possible to see the real problems in the european union and that we will all have the leverage to guarantee democracy in europe through european support and solidarity.
mr president, the internal security of the european union is under unprecedented threat these days. the reason for this is the wrong policy being pursued by the european commission and some european countries. the debate is fundamentally flawed because the concepts have been replaced and because there is empty talk, probably born of a colonial conscience. internal order and security are under pressure from the threat of islamist terrorism. the wrong policy, led by the european commission, calls islamist terrorism a "cultural difference". europe nurtures, feeds and sustains those who attack it. this is an unprecedented and serious danger. we need a new policy - a policy of pushing back on illegal immigration, a policy of calling things by their true names, a policy that clearly states and distinguishes between invasion and terror and human rights. we need a new attitude from all european leaders.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on automated data exchange with regard to dna data in denmark, as the state has fully complied with the general data protection provisions, from which it should have the right to receive and supply personal data. i believe that automated exchange will help cross-border cooperation, increase the security and protection of citizens and help security structures in the fight against cross-border crime, and in particular against persons posing a threat to national security, persons engaged in illegal activity and misuse of personal data.
in writing. – unfortunately, brutal terrorist attacks in paris and brussels showed that the eu has not been prepared to prevent the growing threat of cross border terrorism and crime. therefore, in the aftermath of the attacks the eu has been actively trying to boost cross-border cooperation between its member states. in this regard, it is very important to improve exchange of information and intelligence between law enforcement authorities of the member states of the european union for the purpose of detecting and investigating terrorism and terrorist activities. i warmly welcome automated data exchange with denmark because this represents another step in combating cross-border terrorism and crime.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i support the proposal for a council decision on the launch of automated data exchange on fingerprints and dna in denmark, as this will lead to better synergies in terms of information exchange. having said that, i want to stress that i believe that information exchange and cooperation are just as important as data collection and that possible measures to improve data exchange should be supported in full respect of existing provisions and case law regarding the protection of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the automated data exchange with regard to fingerprint data in denmark, as the state has fully complied with the general data protection provisions, from which it should have the right to receive and supply personal data. i believe that automated exchange will help cross-border cooperation, increase the security and protection of citizens and help security structures in the fight against cross-border crime, and in particular against persons posing a threat to national security, persons engaged in illegal activity and misuse of personal data.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this agreement. i approve of the visa-free travel for holders of diplomatic passports.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i support the agreement between the european union and china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports, as the agreement reached is in the interest of the union and meets the negotiating objectives set by the council. the agreement provides for the abolition of visas for short-term visits to the eu only for holders of diplomatic passports and contains the necessary safeguards in respect of cases of abuse. the commission has also proposed that the visa waiver for holders of european diplomatic passports be applied to all citizens of the union. on the eu side, according to the commission, this concerns between 100 and 120 thousand passports in circulation, while on the chinese side the data is for 30 thousand passports in circulation. therefore, i believe that the agreement will benefit the relationship between china and the european union, which further conditionalizes its support.
in writing. ‒ i support the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people's republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement supports our strategic partnership with china and will facilitate bilateral exchanges and closer cooperation, as well as being an expression of goodwill on both sides. the abolition of visas will reduce the waiting time at consulates and the costs associated with travel. it will facilitate people-to-people contacts, an important condition for the stable development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links.
in writing. ‒ the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or an eu laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party, for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. looking from this perspective, it can be argued that the agreement has great importance since it has been the first international agreement between the eu and china in the field of home affairs. in light of this, the agreement represents a real opportunity for both sides to develop economic, cultural, scientific and other ties between them. therefore, i fully support it. last but not least, i would like to stress strongly that visa liberalisation should go hand-in-hand with improvements in protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
in writing. – china is a major partner of the european union. as a member of the delegation for china i supported this agreement, because i believe that the abolishment of visas will facilitate and intensify people-to-people contact (an essential condition for the steady development of economic, cultural, scientific and other ties) and reduce the waiting time in front of consulates.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report with the proposal for a regulation on financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. i believe that increased eu co-financing will help countries experiencing budgetary difficulties to allocate funds for additional investment in regional policy projects and will have a positive effect on the economy of these countries. in the context of the financial and economic crisis, countries are forced to take measures of financial restraint in order to stabilise their national budgets. additional funding from the commission will support countries that are still experiencing severe economic difficulties and are at risk of not being able to benefit fully from the european structural and investment funds.
in writing. ‒ as a result of the 'tightening-up' policy imposed at european level, a large proportion of public investment in member states experiencing budgetary difficulties has been discontinued. against this background, the european structural and investment funds (esif) have become a major driver of the economy in those countries where the private sector has refused to invest following the global financial and economic crisis. i believe that if the eu is to emerge from the crisis it is in, it must provide adequate assistance to the member states, not abandon them in times of difficulty. i am of the opinion that the possible suspension of the esi funds in economies that have been experiencing serious financial difficulties for almost a decade will not only deepen the crisis in these countries but also trigger a chain reaction in other parts of europe. this is why i support the amendments to articles 24 and 120 of regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 which do not interrupt the esi funds for member states experiencing temporary budgetary difficulties, but on the contrary help to maximise the investment opportunities provided in the 2014-2020 programming period.
in writing. – among my priorities is the promotion of funding and investment opportunities for projects in the member states. in this regard i consider it important to ensure the smooth implementation of one of the main eu funding tools, the european structural and investment funds (esif). for this and other reasons i supported the commission’s proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report. although the negotiations took a while, a firm position on not extending the categories for data collection etc. was successfully upheld. this enabled us to prevent the commission’s proposal from exceeding its scope. i support the agreement to improve access to available data through better cooperation and statistical activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because there is no doubt that the eu needs statistics and data on transport infrastructure and rail transport of passengers as well as on rail accidents in order to ensure the monitoring and development of the common transport policy and preparatory measures in the field of transport safety. i warmly welcome the signing of the two memoranda of understanding (mous) between eurostat and the commission (27 april 2016) and between eurostat and the era (12 may 2016). mous are important instruments for optimising the use of existing information and avoiding overlapping between eurostat, the commission and the european railway agency (era). they will ensure that statistical data related to eu policies are easily accessible to eu citizens and stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ a key objective of european rail policy is to establish a fast, safe, secure and energy-efficient transport system that is comfortable for passengers and provides good conditions for the development of a european industry that creates jobs and economic prosperity. to achieve this, the eu needs to analyse a certain amount of data to help develop a streamlined strategy that takes account of the development of rail transport in the different member states. in this context, a key motivation for the amendment of the regulation is to simplify data collection in order to reduce unnecessary duplicate statistics. this will allow a more efficient distribution of the data collection work between member states, national statistical authorities, representatives of the railway sector and the competent european authorities. this in turn will go hand in hand with the faster development of a streamlined eu rail strategy. i supported the amendment of this regulation because i believe that the rationalization of the european rail strategy will save funds which have not been used optimally so far.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that good statistics will help create a well-functioning common transport policy and system. i supported a solution based largely on the signing of two memoranda of understanding, i.e. (1) between eurostat and the european railway agenda and (2) between eurostat and dg move, in order to guarantee the availability of data on ertms, the accessibility of stations to persons with reduced mobility and disabled persons, and on cross-border sections.
in writing. ‒ the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 will encourage the collection of statistical data not only for the transport of goods by inland waterways but also for the transport of passengers. the collection of statistics on passenger transport is an important addition as it will contribute to the study of the development of inland waterway transport and in particular river tourism. to date, research on inland waterway transport has remained underdeveloped compared to other modes of transport such as sea, air and road. the commission notes that the measure is not imputable to the state and that the state has not provided any evidence to support its claim that the measure is imputable to the state. this puts my country, bulgaria, in a particular situation, as it is a major part of pan-european transport corridor no 7, which runs through the rhine-main-danube river channel. bulgaria has a 471 km stretch of the danube river, which runs through a number of beautiful bulgarian cities and provides an opportunity for international travel. however, the lack of statistics on passenger transport in europe by inland waterways prevents my country from analysing in detail the opportunities that can be derived from the development of river tourism. that is why i am in favour of amending this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the union legislative framework for customs offences and penalties because, although the directive represents a step forward by introducing more flexibility to the original proposal, i am highly sceptical of the approach the european commission has chosen to take.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a directive on the union legislative framework for customs offences and penalties. compared to domestic law, customs infringements are treated in 28 different ways in the 28 member states. this leads to revenue losses for member states and trade distortions. i support the intention to establish in this directive a list of acts which would be considered as infringements of union customs legislation, because this will ensure transparency and the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because there is a real need for eu’s legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions. this need has been dictated by the fact that there is still no integrated approach for the enforcement of customs legislation, which consequently means that the rules are the same but when those rules are infringed, the applied sanctions significantly differ in member states. undoubtedly, these differences create a lack of mutual trust among member states’ administrations, which is not good for the functioning of the customs union and the single market. therefore, the eu should develop a common approach that enforces customs legislation. importantly, a proportionate system of sanctions should be in place in order to ensure that customs legislation is fully and correctly enforced. last but not least, the eu should urge member states to work towards improvement of the interaction and performance of customs administrations, ensuring controls with equivalent results and protection of the financial interests of the union.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as it aims to harmonise the approach for the enforcement of customs legislation, particularly for infringement sanctions. this will help remove the inconsistency within the eu customs union and uncertainty for businesses. the ep report provides more flexibility to member states and their customs authorities, as following epp suggestion the report foresees the possibility for the member states to impose criminal sanctions, in accordance with national laws, instead of non-criminal sanctions provided by the directive where the nature and gravity of the infringement so requires.
in writing. ‒ i think that the increase in the budget for the security of the staff of the european institutions is justified. so far, i personally don't think the institutions are well protected, and if the funds are the reason, let's put a little more money in. of course, but let's use them properly and track their application. uncontrolled funds are easily lost. i'm also going to vote for a bigger budget for the security of every single citizen, because we see that as one of our major challenges today. but the better solution will always be to root out the problem, which my party and i have fought so hard to do.
in writing. – i supported draft amending budget no 3/2016 because it proposes to reinforce the security budget by a total amount of eur 15.8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. there is no doubt that the budget for security should be increased particularly in the wake of the november 2015 attacks in paris and those of march 2016 in brussels. another argument in support for security budget increase is the fact that eu institutions have reviewed their security needs and have found security lapses that should be addressed in short to medium term.
in writing. ‒ the signing of the agreement with iran is a huge step forward in the normalisation of our relations with that country. i fully support the lifting of sanctions against iran. these sanctions were an expression of the eu's clerical foreign policy, which favoured not the interests of the eu member states but those of the us and israel. however, i decided to vote against the resolution on the eu's strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal, as i do not agree with some of the extreme statements in the text, such as that a comprehensive agreement should be signed with iran, requiring it to accept western norms and values and change its structure and traditions. we've seen what the imposition of western values has done to countries like afghanistan, iraq, libya, and right now, it's happening in syria.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), also known as the iran nuclear deal, is a remarkable achievement that should not only lead to a significant improvement in eu-iran relations, but also promote stability in the entire region. both sides should work closely together on bilateral and multilateral issues to ensure greater stability in the region and effective implementation of the nuclear deal. i believe that eu-iran relations should be developed through a multi-layered dialogue involving political, diplomatic, economic, academic and interpersonal contacts involving civil society representatives and human rights defenders. trade and renewed access to the world trading system provide an opportunity to overcome iran's isolation. this can be an important tool to strengthen political dialogue and foster cooperation between countries in the region, with a view to accelerating regional development and increasing employment and stability in the wider region. i call for full gender equality, i welcome attempts to draft legislation to protect women from violence and i hope that the newly elected parliament will consider legislation that fully criminalises violence against women.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the completion of the iran nuclear deal is a great success for the international community. on the one hand, it represents a triumph of diplomacy over nuclear proliferation, and on the other, it serves as a good basis for the development of cooperation and constructive dialogue between the european union and iran. in fact, the european union and iran can cooperate in a number of areas, with an emphasis on the development of trade. but it takes concrete steps to promote it. iran needs to work and focus on respecting human rights, improving the situation of ethnic minorities, ensuring free access to the internet and abolishing the death penalty. in addition, the country should focus on reforms by liberalising its economy and improving the business climate in the country. i believe that in the long term, deepening the eu-iran relationship will contribute to promoting peace and stability throughout the region, including the resolution of the military conflicts in syria and yemen.
in writing. – i supported this strategy as i believe that the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), was a notable achievement for multilateral diplomacy, and for european diplomacy in particular. the strategy can help promote stability across the whole region while at the same time it makes a substantial improvement in eu-iran relations possible. with this report, parliament calls on the government of iran to address the substantive concerns on the situation of human rights in iran, as well as the specific calls to action found in resolutions of the un general assembly.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report by mrs ferrara on the fight against corruption and the actions resulting from the resolution of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, as it contains some points with which i cannot agree. one of them is the call for concrete action at eu level, which i believe is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i support the report on the fight against corruption and the actions to combat organised crime and money laundering, as i believe that we really need a review of the existing legislation to fight organised crime and corruption in order to optimise it, more police and judicial cooperation at european level, improving the sharing of information between law enforcement services and europol and the creation of an effective european prosecutor's office with clearly defined powers to support national authorities. according to the report, the irregularities detected in 2014 with regard to the european budget amounted to eur 538 million. this value reflects only the actual irregularities committed and does not take into account the negative impact of phenomena such as corruption, money laundering, tax avoidance. i therefore call again on the council to examine the remaining points of dispute and to adopt a decision on the proposal for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, the proposal for a directive on the fight against fraud affecting the financial interests of the union and the proposal for a regulation on the eurojust criminal justice cooperation agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the fight against corruption and the actions resulting from the resolution of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, as i share the view that a revision of the legislative framework is necessary to overcome any shortcomings in the fight against organised crime and corruption and to improve cross-border judicial cooperation. it is necessary to provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions against the unlawful acquisition of any financial and/or material benefit. organised crime, corruption and money laundering usually have a cross-border dimension, which requires close cooperation between competent national authorities and between national authorities and relevant eu agencies, and the regulation will contribute to enhanced police and judicial cooperation at european level. the adopted regulation creates a realistic environment to prevent organised crime and corruption from entering the legal economy and calls for the introduction of a comprehensive eu-wide 'electronic public procurement' system to reduce the risk of corruption in public procurement.
in writing. ‒ transnational organised crime and corruption constitute major global issues. looking from this perspective, the fight against both issues should be a top priority for the eu and its member states. we should adopt and support common european action plan for fighting organised crime and corruption. there are several reasons for this. firstly, the european action plan for fighting organised crime and corruption will facilitate effectively police and judicial cooperation between member states. secondly, it will break down national boundaries recognising the added value that the european legislation have. thirdly, it will provide law enforcement authorities at european level with the necessary tools to properly fight organised crime group across europe. last but not least, in order our fight against organised crime and corruption to be effective, the member states should set up secure and effective mechanisms in the current institutional framework to ensure that investigations into organised crime are properly coordinated and that mutual trust among law enforcement authorities in the member states is fostered.
in writing. ‒ i supported mrs ferrara's report because organised crime is a global threat to european citizens, requiring a common, coordinated response by the eu and its member states. organized crime groups have a wide range of activities, and one of their main characteristics is their rapid adaptation to different geographical, economic and social conditions and their weaknesses. a large proportion of the illicit proceeds of crime are laundered into the european economy. it should be noted that corruption and money laundering usually have a cross-border dimension, which requires close cooperation between the competent national authorities, as well as between national authorities and the relevant eu agencies. the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office would contribute to the fight against corruption in the eu and to the control of misuse of the eu's financial interests. the counterfeiting of various products in the eu, drug trafficking, tax evasion and organised crime and terrorism are just some of the activities of organised crime groups that we need to tackle. bulgaria is one of the countries that still has a high rate of organised crime, the level of corruption also remains high. i therefore believe that a multidisciplinary approach and the development of effective and innovative european legislation are needed to address these challenges.
in writing. – i supported this report as corruption and organised crime in the european union is a major problem that holds back the development of the national and eu initiatives and the well—being of eu citizens. this report analyses the current situation in the eu regarding the fight against crime and makes proposals for combating new forms of crimes with european instruments.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on human rights and migration to third countries. it contains a number of problematic points with which i cannot agree. among the main problems is the complete lack of distinction between the concepts of 'migrant' and 'refugee'. they are in no way interchangeable and it is unacceptable to put a sign of equality. the text repeatedly observes that rights normally granted to 'refugees' are extended to migrants, while making no distinction between legal and illegal migrants. the report also calls for the creation of 'safe and legal' migration routes. europe cannot afford to encourage migration, because many countries are already having major problems with their social systems, their security systems, etc.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, in recent years, many people have been forced to leave their countries and become migrants on account of conflicts, extreme poverty and particularly human rights violations. far more disturbing, however, is the fact that as migrants they continue to face human rights violations in numerous countries of transit or destination. the eu and its member states should lead by example in promotion and protection of the human rights of migrants, notably within their own borders, in order to be credible partners when discussing migration and human rights with third countries. therefore, the eu should identify specific actions that member states should take to combat xenophobia and to facilitate social integration of migrants. with regard to human rights and migration in third countries, the eu should use various policy instruments in its relations with developing countries in order to protect human rights/rights of migrants there. in this context, the eu and its member states should incorporate migration issues as a component of the political dialogue with third countries. the eu also should provide technical assistance to improve national and local human rights/migrants policies in third countries. last but not least, the eu should work actively with ngos and civil society in third countries.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries. this report shall promote the adoption of the un guiding principles and support their implementation worldwide. i believe it is important for companies to apply the un guiding principles, including by establishing due diligence policies and risk management safeguards, and by providing effective remedies where their activities have led to or contributed to adverse human rights impacts. i consider it necessary for member states to adopt a coherent, comprehensive, effective and binding approach in their legislative work so as to fulfil their obligation to prevent, investigate and sanction human rights violations committed by corporations under their jurisdiction, including those committed in third countries, and to compensate victims.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution. there are reports that stress that transnational corporations and other business enterprises may at times cause or contribute to human rights violations in third countries, particularly affecting vulnerable groups such as minorities, indigenous people, women and children. unfortunately, nowadays human rights violations by corporations are a worldwide concern. it is important to note that many transnational corporations, whether european or not, operating in third countries, have substantial business operations in europe and/or may be owned by european corporations, have assets or goods in europe, or control other corporations in europe, or receive investments or use the financial services of institutions in europe. in this context, the eu and the member states should lay down clear rules setting out that companies established in their territory or under their jurisdiction must respect human rights throughout their operations, in every country and context in which they operate, and in relation to their business relationships, including outside the eu. thus, in this manner, the eu will have a leading role in setting up of clear liability standards for corporate involvement in human rights abuses.
in writing. – the report highlights the increasing role of corporations in ensuring respect for human rights. it acknowledges that trade agreements can contribute to reinforcing the global rules-based trading system as well as human rights provisions. in this regard it recognises the major importance of corporate social responsibility and welcomes the growing use of instruments based on companies’ self-commitment. for this among other reasons i supported the report.
in writing. ‒ the eu strategy on liquefied natural gas and its storage has a significant role to play in achieving the ultimate goal of a european energy union. given that gas imports from russia were 7% higher in 2015 than in 2014 and that 41% of imports of natural gas from non-eu countries were from russia in 2015, it is necessary to put in place effective solutions to reduce the dependence on russian gas. the eu and eastern europe in particular need diversification of energy supplies, and this can be achieved through better coordination of national energy policies and the creation of an energy union with a single energy market and a common external policy. i believe it is important to promote the most efficient use of existing liquefied natural gas (lng) terminals before supporting new regasification terminals.
in writing. ‒ the eu is the largest energy importer in the world, importing more than half (54%) of the energy it consumes. this means the eu continues to be highly dependent on gas and oil imports from authoritarian regimes. therefore, the establishment of an energy union is an important step on the road to achieve energy security through diversification of energy sources and energy routes to europe. in a long term perspective, the establishment of the energy union will ensure that all eu citizens have secure, equal and affordable energy supply. in this context, the current developments on global liquefied natural gas (lng) markets present a major opportunity for the eu to deliver lower energy costs, security and resilience to eu consumers. therefore, the eu should focus its efforts on promotion and development of new lng terminals, distribution systems, interconnectors, transmission corridors and storage stations. lng is a particularly important element for the establishment of the energy union and will contribute significantly towards ending any kind of energy isolation or dependence of the eu member states and eu regions.
in writing. ‒ natural gas will play an important role, at least for the next few decades, for eu energy and industry, the integration of renewables and the shift towards a low-carbon economy based on clean energy sources. the eu's dependence on natural gas imports is growing and alternative sources and supply routes are needed to ensure energy security. in the field of transport, without natural gas, it is unlikely that an environmental breakthrough will be made. this requires a strategic approach to lng and gas storage as an element of our security, competitiveness and manageability of our energy dependence. i therefore fully support the ideas proposed in the report on taking account of the accessibility of lng terminals in eu cross-border gas infrastructure projects, on making the most efficient use of existing infrastructure, on a regionally and geographically balanced approach to project prioritisation. it is clear that we will neither reduce our dependence on the dominant supplier nor be able to build a market with competitive opportunities if lng and storage do not start to play a stronger role in creating the single gas market. i also support the strong texts relating to the potential of liquefied gas as an alternative fuel for land and water transport, which can easily contribute to reducing harmful emissions from transport.
in writing. ‒ i have voted for this report. i welcome the fact that it proposes to simplify and improve eu legislation in order to make it easier to enforce existing rules and tackle the current shortcomings. as it is, the current situation demands a number of improvements, especially when it comes to scope, training, control procedures and sanctions. because the report correctly recognises the importance of member states in all of these matters, i have voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on how to standardise fisheries control in europe. the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities in order to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and to maintain a level playing field should be emphasised. it is necessary for member states to ensure the effective application of the control regulation. the introduction of european training for inspectors and the development of a common control model is of key importance. the training of fishermen should also be strengthened. it could be promoted and carried out through their professional organisations to improve understanding of the meaning and benefits of the rules and controls and to enhance the culture of compliance. it is also necessary to create online databases to make the rules accessible and understandable to all. i believe that fish auctions play a vital role in the seafood industry and are central to the control of landed fish. the eu's ambitious fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing worldwide must be combined with effective enforcement of the control regulation in our own waters.
in writing. ‒ european fishermen have the greatest stake in the sustainable management of living marine resources in the seas and oceans, whose reproduction is threatened by current overfishing conditions. however, unfair market competition in the fisheries sector, which is expressed in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, makes the future of the european fisherman's livelihood uncertain. i therefore support this resolution, which seeks to strengthen and standardise fisheries control in europe by insisting on strengthening the mandate of the european fisheries control agency. in order to reduce the risk of marine species extinction caused by illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, the european fisheries control agency needs to be able to apply common control, inspection and surveillance standards and to facilitate operational cooperation between member states through joint deployment plans. this resolution takes a step in this direction by encouraging the implementation of the agency's 'training programme' for fisheries inspectors, which standardises training and control procedures in this sector and will serve as a reference for countries wishing to train their fisheries inspectors in the future.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on improving the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. this is the first detailed document devoted entirely to transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. it is important to give equal attention to all transport corridors, regardless of where they are located in europe, in order to stimulate their potential.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on improving connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in union programmes in the field of research and technological development, in particular in the framework of the european research area. this will also help to make better use of existing regional cooperation policies and instruments such as european territorial cooperation (etc), interreg and european territorial cooperation groups (etcs). member states ensuring a high degree of transparency and control over eu spending should also be encouraged to adopt or continue to apply measures to move towards greener transport options.
in writing. ‒ connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure have a major impact on the economic growth, economic competitiveness, employment and territorial cohesion of the eu and its regions. unfortunately, nowadays central and eastern europe’s transport infrastructure is still undeveloped and significantly lags behind the one in western europe. undeveloped infrastructure is one of the reasons why central and eastern eu member states have slow economic growth and have not been attractive for foreign investors. therefore, the eu has been providing financial help to its central and eastern member states in order to improve and develop transport infrastructure. in this regard, there are several important points and priorities that should be taken into account. firstly, member states in central and eastern europe should foster coordination and synergy between european structural and investment (esi) funds, the connecting europe facility (cef), horizon 2020, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and eib and ebrd resources when implementing projects. secondly, member states should develop north-south transparent corridors and extend ten-t corridors, in particular projects such as via carpathia and rail baltica. thirdly, member states in central and eastern europe should improve connections between different transport modes in order to reduce prices for passenger and freight transport and to take into account ecological and social concerns.
in writing. ‒ i support this report on improving connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe because of the support it gives to the development of rail transport in the region of my country, bulgaria. given that the rail network in central and eastern europe is considerably less developed than in the rest of europe, i believe that its modernisation should be a top priority for the eu. the development of rail transport in this part of the old continent will have a positive impact on industry, freight transport, the quality of public services and tourism. this in turn will create conditions for economic growth and many jobs in countries like bulgaria. moreover, in addition to economic benefits, the improvement of rail infrastructure in the region will increase the mobility of european citizens from different member states, which will favour the level of social cohesion in the eu. finally, it is also important to note that rail transport is one of the most environmentally friendly modes of transport and its development must accompany any economy that seeks to be sustainable.
in writing. – as a european citizen and representative from bulgaria i supported this ini report as i believe that there is a need for further boost to improve the cross-border connectivity along the north-south direction between the member states in central and eastern europe. furthermore, it should also be recognized that the region’s potential for inland waterway transport ought to be further utilised, especially along the danube river. there is also significant potential for further developing shipping to the maritime ports in the baltic and black seas, not least in the energy sector.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report with recommendations to the commission to set up an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights because i believe that the ideas it proposes for treaty changes de facto run counter to the principle of subsidiarity. i also fear that the mechanisms proposed in this way could be used to exert political pressure on sovereign member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report containing recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, as the european union has put democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights at the heart of its core principles and objectives. the community has a wide range of instruments for implementing its laws and treaties where substantive issues are concerned, but not so much when it comes to implementing the obligations of the treaties with regard to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. attempts by the commission to remind a member state of its commitments are often met with reluctance or outright refusal to recognise the eu's generally accepted rules and powers to enforce them, and its intervention has so far been timid and arbitrary. although the eu has a number of existing instruments to guarantee fundamental principles and rights, there are still significant gaps and in practice these instruments often prove to be limited in scope, insufficient and ineffective, or unlikely to be used. instead of creating new procedures, an interinstitutional agreement is proposed, building on existing instruments, with its scope extended by a reporting, notification and sanctioning mechanism.
in writing. ‒ today, more than ever, the eu needs a comprehensive mechanism to guarantee democracy, respect for human rights, the rule of law and the fundamental rights and freedoms of union citizens. this need is dictated by the current level of integration in the eu and recent events in some member states. in recent years, there has been a negative trend in a number of countries to violate eu law, thereby de facto violating the fundamental rights and freedoms of european citizens, who are not always fully informed, and this is an even more serious problem. unfortunately, my native bulgaria is no exception. due to an undemocratic legal restriction in the bulgarian electoral code, i myself was fined for the fact that i used a few words in my native language during an election campaign in bulgaria. and the right of every citizen of the union to express messages and opinions in the language of his or her choice should be guaranteed. in this context, i fully support the creation of the eu mechanism in question, because it will guarantee that european citizens are treated equally, but also monitor the application of european law by member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the establishment of an interinstitutional agreement on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, as it will ensure respect for these principles through a representative group of independent experts, based on a quantitative and qualitative review of the available data and information provided by all member states. in addition, the eu pact for democracy provides for the preparation of an annual democracy report containing country-specific recommendations. the adoption of the report marks the beginning of the interparliamentary debate on the follow-up to the european democracy report. on the basis of the report, the commission may decide to initiate a 'systemic infringement' procedure under article 2 teu and article 258 tfeu by bringing together several infringement procedures. i support the resolution because i believe that the eu pact will remove the scepticism towards my country as a reliable business partner and the critical view of current non-compliance with eu law that exists in other member states.
in writing. – democracy and rule of law and fundamental rights are core values for the eu. given the challenges ahead of the union we have observed that some member states have weakened their promotion of these values. for this reason i voted in favour of this report, in line with the epp’s stance that the mechanism to be created must fit into the current treaties’ framework and must be legally sound.
in writing. the european commission has committed to focusing on the important issues and listening more to the concerns of its citizens in 2017. the work programme that juncker presented for the coming year has the ambition to take concrete actions that will bring about tangible changes in people's lives. the eu is going through the worst economic crisis since its creation, which also has a serious social dimension. today, more than ever, the union is faced with unacceptably high levels of unemployment, poverty and social inequalities, and young people have no prospects for development. the recovery of the european economy must at all costs be balanced against the need for a more social europe. in this context, i welcome the commission's decision to establish a european pillar of social rights. it is high time that due attention was paid to the need to ensure a work-life balance for working families. however, the commission should also consider concrete actions to reduce child poverty and ensure equal access to quality education and pre-school training. there are 26 million children in the eu at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and this statistic is absolutely incompatible with our claims to development and civilization.
madam president, madam vice-president, i think that with the proposed review of the multiannual financial framework, the european budget is finally getting out of the emergency lane it was in. we cannot pass up the proposed increase of 400 million more for horizon, 400 million more for connected europe, 200 million for cosme, 200 million for erasmus, 1 billion for employment. but as we keep our eyes open to all these good things that are on offer, we must also look to the dangers that loom over us. the programming period started a year and a half later, and in 2020, the regions will either have lost money or have bad projects that they submitted in a hurry to save money. i think that in this review we should propose a mechanism to give them time and space to maneuver so that they don't lose a penny of the money we agreed back in 2013. it's a danger that exists, and i think we need to think about it. otherwise, the money we have agreed to send to the poorest regions of europe will be unable to be collected because of the short deadlines.
in writing. three years after the start of the current programming period, europe is in a much different situation, characterised by new challenges and priorities. today, the multiannual financial framework is being implemented in the context of the migration crisis, threats to internal security and still unacceptably high levels of youth unemployment, which require significant additional funding from the european budget. to address these challenges, specific instruments have been mobilised in recent years, maximising the potential of the current multiannual financial framework. all this shows that the mid-term review of the framework is extremely timely and necessary. the current budgetary difficulties further threaten the already highly shaken confidence of citizens in the european union. it is therefore important that member states take their responsibility and back up their words with deeds, ensuring a predictable and reliable eu budget for the remaining years of the current programming period. in this context of the mid-term review, the question of replenishing the european budget with genuine autonomous own resources to replace the current system of national contributions should also be given serious consideration.
in writing. – the digital single market aims at bringing people together. for many of us, going online is the quickest and most convenient way of getting informed. however this is not a reality for around one fifth of the eu population. a great deal of the public sector bodies’ websites are not fit for use by people with disabilities, such as hearing and vision impairment. the swift implementation of the accessibility of public sector bodies’ websites directive will empower european consumers with disabilities to access information and public services available online. i invite the european commission to keep a close eye on the process of implementation. at the same time, however this process should not pose disproportionate burden on eu member states. the european parliament managed to keep the text realistic and reasonable, which i believe will help the smooth work-on-the-ground of this directive. i would like to thank all colleagues involved in the negotiations, who managed to widen the scope to all public sector bodies and also to include the mobile sites and applications. this is a step towards enabling people with disabilities to access the public sector bodies’ websites anywhere at any time and also a key step to future-proof this directive.
in writing. ‒ i support the position of the european parliament on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017. i think migration, the weak economic growth after the economic crisis and youth unemployment are important aspects that need to be reflected in it. the budget must be aligned with the eu's political priorities in order to respond effectively to emergencies and new challenges.
s&ds) i supported the resolution because i believe that the mid-term review of the mff is an opportunity to ensure a sustainable budget for the european union, both for long-term priorities and for emerging challenges. in his state of the union address, jean-claude juncker said that tackling youth unemployment remained the number one priority. in this context, i welcome the commission's commitment to increase the funding for 'erasmus+' by eur 200 million and the youth employment initiative by eur 1 billion. however, i do not think that the proposed increase is sufficient. if young people are really a priority for juncker, his words should be steadily underpinned financially. the youth employment initiative should be increased by at least eur 3 billion per year as targeted funding, plus eur 3 billion from the european social fund. as juncker himself said, if we don't act now, the current generation of young people will be the first to have a lower standard of living than their parents.
in writing. – the mid-term review/revision of the mff is a real opportunity to adjust the agreed figures and rules in the context of both expected and unexpected developments. in light of this, the current mff covers the 2014-2020 period and it the first to take the form of a regulation, and the first to contain provisions providing for a mid-term review that may lead to its revision. in fact, there are many current and long—standing economic and political problems such as the refugee crisis, the increased threat of terrorism, the war in ukraine, the protracted economic crisis in greece and brexit require immediate actions. therefore, although barely two years have passed since the beginning of the current mff, in order to accommodate these needs and ensure smooth implementation of the eu budget, adjustments and changes should be made.
in writing. ‒ the case of eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as in estonia is indicative of how vulnerable european workers are in the context of structural changes in world trade patterns. these companies, which until recently held leading positions in europe and the world, had to reduce their production due to external factors such as the fall in oil prices and the weakening of the eu's trading position internationally. thus, once again, skilled european workers found themselves out of work. in this context, i support the granting of aid through the european globalisation adjustment fund. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i think that the eu should speed up the provision of financial assistance to alleviate the shock that the estonian workers and their families have suffered.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications, as i believe it will help build a strong and inclusive digital society. harmonising the rules on digital accessibility measures in europe will contribute to achieving greater integration of the single market, providing greater awareness and choice for european citizens and, last but not least, facilitating access to and use of services by people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the creation of a directive on the accessibility of public sector bodies' websites and mobile applications, as it aims to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states on the accessibility of public authorities' websites. it lays down harmonised technical requirements which are essential for citizens' participation in economic and social life and for the full enjoyment of their rights. the accessibility of the public institutions' websites will be subject to constant monitoring. the adopted directive primarily concerns the websites of tax authorities, employment offices, social security institutions and those providing services such as the issuing of passports and driving licences, vehicle registration, the issuing of building permits, birth certificates and civil marriage. the scope also includes health-related services such as interactive advice, online services and booking a doctor's appointment, as well as those related to education university application, access to library catalogues.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that we should approve the directive on the accessibility of the websites and mobile application of public sector bodies. it is our moral duty to guarantee that people with disabilities will have better access to information published on the websites and mobile applications of public services. thus, in this matter, we will not only help europeans with disabilities to participate fully in society but also will make another step in the process of building of eu digital society.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation on protective measures against plant pests, as their health is a key factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry. healthy seeds and planting material are necessary for productive crops and for jobs, innovation in crop production and food security. the adopted legislation aims to protect european agriculture and forestry by preventing the introduction and spread of alien pests, also taking into account invasive alien species, under the mechanism provided for in the eu biodiversity strategy. it also lays down the basic provisions for quarantine stations where the use of such stations is required by the same or a secondary act. the introduction of a condition requiring that exports of plants, plant products and other objects to third countries be carried out in a strictly defined order is also new. the requirements for the introduction of plants through travellers' luggage are also updated as existing loopholes are becoming a growing risk to the phytosanitary status of the union. an electronic notification and reporting system shall be established.
s&ds) mr president, unemployment rates, and particularly youth unemployment, are still worryingly high, despite the improvement reported over the past year. in my country, bulgaria, the shrinking and ageing workforce, the weak labour market participation and the mismatches between the demand and supply of skills are seen as persistent and worrying. i am of the opinion that facilitating the transition from education to work requires the provision of traineeship and apprenticeship opportunities that give young people clearly defined rights, including decent pay and social protection. last but not least, i believe that the priority given to reducing macroeconomic imbalances must be balanced with the need to maintain minimum standards in education, especially in higher education, especially in low gdp countries. ensuring equal opportunities, inclusive and quality education is a key factor in stabilising the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i have voted against this file. i disagree with the fact, that low public demand and a deteriorating international environment are the key challenges for the economic recovery of the european union. in fact, member states have undertaken many meaningful structural reforms. these important reforms should have been highlighted in the report instead.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the implementation of the priorities for 2016 under the european semester for economic policy coordination. i believe that continuing structural reforms, addressing the investment gap and responsible fiscal policies are key to the economic recovery of eu member states. alongside economic policies, the european semester also serves to monitor and promote progress towards the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. here, unfortunately, progress in some areas has been very limited in recent years. i think it is important to reaffirm the eu's commitment to delivering on these ambitions.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, eu economy will grow less than expected on the basis of the european economic spring forecast 2016, as gdp in the eurozone is expected to increase by only 1.6%, reaching 1.8% by 2017. the slow economic growth highlights that the eu and some of its member states continue to struggle with the implementation of sustainable reforms. furthermore, the slow economic growth signals that eu economy lacks cohesion, productivity, competitiveness, sustainable investments and that it suffers from too high unemployment rates. in this regard, it is important to note that the european semester process has a real potential to facilitate economic growth, to provide answers to existing social challenges and to ensure more competitiveness of the eu economy. however, the key to the success of the european semester process are its priorities, which for 2016 are: supporting investment for innovation, growth and job creation, pursuing socially balanced structural reforms and encouraging responsible public finances. therefore, the eu should work to meet 2016 priorities in order to facilitate economic growth and to kick start its economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution. i generally support the motion to set a mandatory limit on industrial trans fats in food. european markets and especially citizens in all member states will benefit from this measure. high levels of trans fats pose serious health risks to people, such as cardiovascular diseases. in my country, the risk is significantly lower because the average diet focuses on quality-products, which are also found on the bulgarian market. a reduction in industrial trans fats will result in the support of the production and use of high-quality and natural foods, which i highly welcome. nonetheless, i am not convinced that this is a measure which should be discussed on a european level.
s&ds) the court's 2015 annual report rightly focuses on the need to restore the confidence of european citizens by showing that their funds are being used in the best possible way. in this respect, the report rightly highlights the decreasing error rate and the fact that 96,2% of resources were spent on compliance, while, of course, objectively identifying the problems that exist. moreover, the court emphasises the crucial importance of the end result, not just the observance of the rules for their own sake. this year's report comes at the same time as the mid-term review of the mff, which is due to mobilise all the resources needed to tackle youth unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, and the challenges of migration. in view of the above, i am convinced that the court deserves to be congratulated on the work it has put into this highly substantive and value-added report.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, the offensive on the city of mosul is remarkable not only for its lightning speed but also for its significance on a global scale. we are witnessing an unprecedented coming together of different religious and ethnic groups in the name of peace and territorial integrity of iraq. sunnis, shiites, kurds and christians are all together in the fight against the last great bastion of the islamic state in iraq. we regret to acknowledge that the military intervention against mosul poses a serious humanitarian challenge to the large civilian population. more than 1 million people are literally being held hostage by the terrorists of the islamic state, with even children and women being used as human shields. this situation could in the short term trigger a new wave of refugees and i consider it extremely important to ensure maximum protection of the civilian population during hostilities. it is also necessary to continue to work together and the international community to support the iraqi government with humanitarian assistance during the ongoing operations. the peaceful population in the region needs our help and the european union must be an active player in the implementation of the peace plan in iraq.
in writing. dear colleagues, when the islamic state took over mosul in 2014, half of its population fled the city to escape certain death. today, two years later, the city looks like an apocalyptic scene from a movie. a film whose main characters are mostly women, children, old people. and while the dilemma facing iraq is how to recover politically after winning the battle against isis, the dilemma facing the international community is how to ensure the safety of millions of civilians and subsequently help them return to their homes. the complete conquest of the city will take weeks, even months, during which time civilians fleeing it will number in the millions. it is necessary to provide these people with access to food, water, shelter and safe passage out of the city as soon as possible, especially for the most vulnerable groups, including the christian minorities there. the eu and the international community must work to ensure that the civilian population of this country is protected and given a reason to stay in their country. otherwise, if we fail to do so, then europe could face a new refugee crisis no less terrible than the present one.
for the last 15 years or so, and especially this year, afghans have been the largest group of applicants for international protection in my country bulgaria, or nearly 70%. if the war in syria is sending entire families fleeing, and we are seeing children born on boats on their way to europe, then from afghanistan it is mostly men fleeing in search of economic benefits and jobs, but not through the legal line, often trying to force their way across the european external border. i want to make it clear that the eu has no obligation to provide support and protection to all those who want to come here in search of a better life, especially when these people are breaking the law by crossing the border illegally. the eu therefore needs effective readmission agreements to ensure the expeditious return of these economic and illegal migrants. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's return policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's return policy. i believe the afghanistan deal is a step in the right direction. the european union has long supported the country in its economic development and in establishing lasting peace. we will not leave afghanistan and i now welcome the commitments made by the eu, including in terms of funding programmes for the reintegration of returned migrants. in conclusion, i would like to stress once again the importance of european cooperation and cooperation with countries of origin and transit. only in this way will we be able to manage the migration crisis and prevent new waves of migration.
commissioner, i speak as a journalist and a politician. if we do not react to the genocide of the erdogan regime against freedom of speech, we become complicit in murder and violence, as the bulgarian government and its docile media recently became complicit. recently, interior minister butcharova, with the tacit approval of the bulgarian prime minister, returned innocent sufferers who had sought refuge in europe from persecution to the regime in turkey. a journalist from the closed newspaper zaman was captured at the bulgarian border along with teachers and police officers and was returned to the clutches of the dark regime. a shameful act for the bulgarian authorities and the media most of them dependent on them, who watched without participating. who is behind this shameful and illegal deal with the turkish authorities? let's return to slaughter those uncomfortable with the regime against stopping the refugee wave. no journalist in turkey is a criminal because he tells the truth about the regime. if we don't react, we're complicit in this. we must protect freedom of speech and condemn the shameful dealings of european leaders with erdogan.
the following table is provided: the violence against freedom of speech in turkey is not news, any other claim is hypocrisy. for years, the islamist turkish authorities have been crushing freedom of speech, blocking social networks, shutting down internet access. the dictator erdogan has ordered the seizure of newspapers, radio stations, internet agencies, magazines. with brute force, with sticks, tear gas and bullets. i remind the fate of editors and journalists from jumhuriyet, zaman, tv "samayilu". that was before the coup. and then there were people here who pretended not to see what was going on. colleagues who pleased the dictator, negotiated visa liberalization with him, paid billions of euros to european taxpayers for his racketeering and extortion. since the coup, three more agencies have been seized and closed down, 45 newspapers, 16 television channels, 23 radio stations, 15 magazines, 29 publishing houses. and in this room, the hypocrisy continues. there are colleagues who continue to call the dictator a "strategic partner". colleagues who pretend not to see the annexation of foreign territories in syria and iraq, the ongoing illegal occupation of cyprus, the hostile threats to the territorial integrity of members of the european union, including against my homeland bulgaria. some of the perpetrators of this assault on freedom of speech are in this room and in the chairs of the european commission. erdogan is a dictator, turkey is islamizing. he who sows winds, reaps storms.
madam president, these claims by the turkish president and government that they are defending democracy, defending it against the coup, against subversion and against terrorism: the first message that this chamber should send is that these claims are totally ridiculous given this situation regarding freedom of speech in turkey. there are absolutely no grounds to take this turkish government seriously when it treats freedom of the press in this way which has been graphically described. the second message that has to be sent from this chamber is a very clear, categorical demand for all these people to be freed; to be set free as a first step if this turkish government wants to start re-opening any kind of meaningful dialogue with europe.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner, concepts from my childhood such as 'nuclear shelter' and 'nuclear blast training', which i thought belonged to the past, are unfortunately returning. it is insane, suicidal and barbaric to use nuclear weapons, whether for threat or for geopolitical ends. i'll give you two examples: a few years ago, russia deployed missile systems capable of carrying nuclear warheads in kaliningrad - very close to or on the very border of the european union. the statements by leading russian politicians that russia has the right to deploy and store nuclear weapons on the territory of crimea are also of concern. equally troubling is russia's new 2014 doctrine, which allows the use of nuclear weapons against countries that do not possess them, and russia's decision to terminate the russian-american plutonium disposal agreement and link it to unacceptable demands. a month ago, north korea conducted its latest nuclear test in flagrant violation of un resolutions and is now believed to be able to mount warheads on its missiles. north korea must abide by its international obligations by returning to the negotiating table and immediately ceasing its nuclear program. increasing the security of nuclear weapons stationed in non-nuclear states, such as turkey in close proximity to the military action in syria, should also be our immediate priority. one of the most dangerous scenarios is that nuclear weapons fall into the hands of terrorist groups or non-state actors. strengthening the mandate of the international atomic energy agency and including non-proliferation clauses in the european union's treaties with third countries are steps in the right direction.
the following table shows the number of patients: madam president, commissioner, the proliferation and potential use of nuclear weapons remains one of the most serious concerns for the international community and a threat to the security of the european union. sadly, in recent years international peace and stability have been seriously undermined, and a number of nuclear-armed states have been modernizing and strengthening their arsenals. the security environment in the european union's neighbouring countries has deteriorated significantly and this increasingly calls for us to strive for a world without nuclear weapons. the european union must mobilise all its diplomatic resources and work towards progress on the progressive reduction of nuclear warhead stocks and complete nuclear disarmament worldwide. also, given the continuing threat of terrorism, we must work together with the international community to implement effective measures to prevent the possibility of nuclear weapons falling into the hands of terrorist, criminal and non-state organisations.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, volunteering is important to our society and there is no doubt about that. i believe that every person should participate at least once in their life in a volunteer initiative, and in young people such participation builds qualities and discipline that are a basic prerequisite for their future development in society. the european voluntary service in this respect is a programme that helps young people to volunteer abroad. this year it celebrates 20 years since its creation. 20 years of helping over 100,000 volunteers. this figure speaks for itself of the potential of young people from european nations and the values that volunteering instills in them and that they profess. almost 100 million citizens of all ages are involved in volunteering activities and their work contributes to generating around five per cent of the european union's gross domestic product. 2011 was declared the european year of volunteering and gave impetus to policy development and the presence of volunteering in key european programmes. the movement of young people within the european union, whether for training, work experience or charity, has proved its positive impact and should be encouraged. gaining experience, adapting to the new environment and sharing good practices is certainly beneficial for all of us. i am proud to say that in bulgaria - the country i represent - young people are ready and actively participating in such activities. my organization, vmro, and i support and encourage volunteerism and we organize many activities related to volunteer work in cleaning parks, forests, helping the elderly, participating in community events, fighting forest fires and many others. it is our duty to strengthen this activity in the community. active citizenship and responsibility are the foundation of any self-respecting society, and volunteering is just that. projects to stimulate young people and their participation are necessary and mandatory. all this must reach the most remote areas, the smallest municipalities and regions.
mr president, commissioner, this year we are celebrating 20 years of the european voluntary service. i think it is more than appropriate to take stock of what has been done at european level to support volunteers and volunteering. we can start by saying that 2011 was declared the european year of volunteering. this demonstrates the european union's commitment to supporting and encouraging citizens and organisations working with volunteers. moreover, the european union is raising the alarm about the declining number of active volunteers and is calling on the member states to make volunteering attractive again. in 2013, in its resolution on volunteering and voluntary activity in europe, the european parliament emphasised the need for a common european approach to volunteering that would create more opportunities for mobility and employment for young people. since 2014, the new erasmus+ programme has enabled young europeans to travel abroad and participate in volunteering projects. last but not least, european commission president jean-claude juncker announced the creation of a european solidarity corps, which will allow young people in the european union to volunteer to help in crisis situations. the measures taken at european level have undoubtedly given a positive boost to the voluntary sector. however, there are still a number of challenges that we have yet to overcome. first of all, it should be noted that there are still too many bureaucratic obstacles at national level which significantly limit the opportunities for volunteering. at present, the activities of volunteers are not recognised in the legal systems of all member states. to my great regret, in the context of the european attention to the subject, my country bulgaria remains one of the few european countries that still does not have a law on the organization of volunteers. i've drafted a bill on volunteering and i'm going to set up a working group to discuss it next week. i believe that such a law would undoubtedly contribute to creating a favourable environment for voluntary activities, to improving their quality and to giving them the recognition they deserve. i think it is extremely important to pay attention to issues such as the volunteer's insurance, reimbursement of expenses, accident insurance, training, qualifications, respect for paid leave and service for the time spent volunteering. as regards possible action at european level, i share the view that the commission should proceed to formal recognition of the status of european volunteer. moreover, member states may validate non-formal self-directed education which is obtained through voluntary work. last but not least, we should pay attention to youth volunteering, because it provides an opportunity for learning and practical skills based on work experience. let's not forget that five percent of the european union's gdp is generated by volunteer work. and every euro we invest returns five to national budgets.
mr president, volunteering is a major force, nurturing civil society and strengthening solidarity, one of the core values of the eu. voluntary work provides direct ways to learn and develop new skills. volunteers can give and gain professional experience and expand their networks. another great value of volunteering is that it brings people together, uniting people from diverse backgrounds to work towards a common goal and benefit our community, addressing human, social and environmental needs and concerns. a great example is the integral role that volunteers play in the current refugee crisis, restoring safety, dignity and hope to people whose lives have been uprooted by war and disaster. this year the european voluntary service celebrates its 20th anniversary. during this time about 100 000 volunteers have been supported. acknowledging the tremendous added value of volunteering, more needs to be done in order to promote and foster voluntary activities. increasing the understanding and transparency of informal and non—formal learning skills acquired during volunteering experience is essential and therefore member states should implement concrete validation processes to ensure a better understanding and comparability of those skills and experience. i believe that the scope, participants, areas of work and destinations of the evs should be expanded. helping others and dedicating time to serving the community should know no barriers and therefore we should strive to widen the possibilities for people of different ages to undertake voluntary work, including taking advantage of the possibilities that the new technologies offer.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i truly believe that investment today in skills development, encouraging and supporting participation in community-building and confidence, and also the resilience of young people, will have a long and lasting effect on the future shape of the eu, its sustainable development and competitiveness. i do recognise the importance of the structural dialogue as a means of listening to young people, both youth organisations and non-organised individuals. but a significant share of the youth still feel they do not have power over the decision-making process. more needs to be done to ensure young people’s voices are heard and that they are fairly represented. we should encourage young people to participate and contribute to all aspects of community life through sport, culture, arts, social entrepreneurship and volunteering. many member states need to strengthen their efforts in order to make the best use of the available eu and national policies.
in writing. ‒ the european council and the council have not provided the parliament with their annual activity reports. furthermore, there is no information on the expenditure incurred in relation to the buildings, no progress reports on the construction projects and no detailed breakdown of the expenditure incurred to date. the rapporteur also calls on the council to provide information on the administrative modernisation process, in particular the expected impact on the council's budget, and i fully support this. we need more transparency. we are the representatives of the people and we must have information without which it is not possible for us to justify the expenditure made by the council or the european council. this is the sixth or seventh year in a row that this has happened. for the reasons stated above, i voted in favour of the report rejecting the discharge of these two institutions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the situation in northern iraq/mosul because i believe that the european union is the one that is suffering the most from the conflict there, which is being flooded by hundreds of thousands of illegal refugees, many of whom are not even iraqis or syrians. the resolution calls on all parties to the conflict to respect international humanitarian law and to ensure that civilians are protected, have the opportunity to leave areas affected by violence and war safely, and are guaranteed unhindered access to health services and humanitarian aid.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in northern iraq and mosul, as the liberation of mosul is a decisive step for the future of iraq. this resolution is a strong signal of the union's support for the fight against daesh, but also of a commitment to the reconstruction and stabilisation of iraq beyond this battle. we stress the absolute priority of protecting civilians, of dealing with the humanitarian situation, in particular that of the displaced persons, whose number will increase considerably. the resolution also has the merit of emphasising two priorities: the return of displaced persons to iraq, including minorities including christians, and the representation of these minorities in the new administration and their full political participation. the return and reintegration of refugees and displaced persons will determine the future stability of the country and its ability to counter the expansion of terrorism in the region. the european union and its member states must play a key role and prepare today for decisive support for the stabilisation of northern iraq.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the situation of journalists in turkey, as what is happening in this neighbour of ours is beginning to resemble the actions of an authoritarian regime. since the failed coup in july, turkey has been in civil and political chaos with president erdogan taking drastic measures. according to the latest reporters without borders report, turkey ranks 151 out of 180 in press freedom and holds the record for the most journalists in prison. the european union must take decisive action to stop the caprice of president erdogan, who is currently taking advantage of the wave of immigrants flooding the eu.
in writing. ‒ the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons aims to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and technologies and to promote cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and in the pursuit of general and complete nuclear disarmament. i supported the resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation, as global cooperation in this area must be strengthened to minimise the threat of nuclear terrorism, which is becoming increasingly real in our times.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of this resolution because i am concerned about the deteriorating security environment around the eu and beyond its neighbourhood and the atrocious humanitarian impact of nuclear weapons. first of all, i strongly support the references in the resolution to existing mechanisms on nuclear security and non-proliferation. i am convinced that our world order should be anchored on international law. therefore, i am in favour of the full implementation and enforcement of multilateral disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control treaties and regimes. i think the eu should use every means at its disposal to assist in resolving proliferation crises, as we successfully did on the iranian nuclear programme. for that reason, i also welcome the suggestion to convene a un conference in 2017 to negotiate a legally binding instrument to prohibit nuclear weapons. such a conference might foster the eu member states to agree on a joint position on nuclear disarmament and make of eu a driving force in strengthening and taking forward multilateral nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation agreements.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint resolution of the political groups on the european voluntary service and the promotion of volunteering in europe, despite some reservations, but in the name of consensus. i do not think that we should ask member states to define a legal environment for volunteering, because each of them should decide for itself whether to do so or not, but since the word 'encourages' is used in the resolution, i felt that this resolution should be supported, which can only reinforce the affirmation of the importance of volunteering. it is hoped that more young people will be willing to participate in such activities and that the funds allocated will be used properly and efficiently.
i am convinced that youth policies cannot exist on their own. synergies between the european union youth strategy and other policies are needed. it must be in sync with education and training, health and employment policies. in the same vein, i believe that the opinion of young people and the expertise of youth organisations must be taken into account when formulating and evaluating the strategy. in this connection, i share an opinion that is recorded in the report of the european youth forum. they believe that 57% of the expertise of youth organisations is not taken into account. i believe that their contribution should carry more weight, especially as they are the main provider of key skills and competences. in conclusion, i believe that the priorities that should be in the strategy for the next three years are to invest in horizontal skills such as entrepreneurship and digital literacy. i supported the report because i believe that young people should be at the heart of european policies.
in writing. ‒ in my view, and in the view of my group, this report does not correspond to the preliminary idea of evaluating the eu youth strategy (2013 2015), as its title suggests. at the same time, i can't agree with many of the ideas that are embedded in it. i am in favour of involving youth organisations in the formulation of union policy, as long as this policy remains at the level of coordination and exchange of good practice. i am also in favour of the open method of coordination, which i consider to be very appropriate, not, as the report says, 'inadequate'. - yes, you did. our young people need help, support and policies to work for them, but let's leave that to the member states so it says in the treaties. let's stop making them feel obligated and scared! and why should we be pursuing youth and education programs that empower young women and girls and facilitate their access to traditionally male-dominated sectors? do we want women to do men's work, and what is the connection with the evaluation of the youth strategy 2013 2015? i didn't support the report.
in writing. – i have voted in favour of this resolution because youth is a topic that is very close to my heart. i wish first of all to underline my attachment to the reference to actively involving youth in policy and to empowering them. as an mep, i try to contribute by initiatives aimed at young people to promote citizenship and to seek solutions to challenges such as youth unemployment. therefore, i am happy with the reference to structured dialogue as well as the suggestion to involve local and regional authorities in the area of youth policy. secondly, i welcome the many references to eu programmes and eu funding aimed at employment and education of young people, especially eramus and erasmus+ programmes, the youth employment initiative, erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme and youth guarantee. i encourage eu institutions to simplify administration procedures and invest in communication so that a maximum of young people can benefit from these tools.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the evaluation of the eu youth strategy, as i believe that there is a need to strengthen the integration of youth policy, cross-sectoral cooperation and social activities within the eu. the interlinkage between the european youth strategy and other european strategies, such as education, training, health and employment, also needs to be strengthened in order to ensure that policies are developed that effectively address the situation and needs of young people facing severe economic, labour and social challenges. i believe that youth policy should be rights-based and support the development of all young people, ensuring that young people's potential is realised. they are our future and should be seen as a resource with enormous potential for the development of european societies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the eu youth strategy (2013 2015). i believe that young people should be actively involved in the planning, development, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of all youth policies. in addition, youth policies and national strategies should be developed in conjunction with and for the benefit of young people. member states should make full use of available eu policies, national policies and financial frameworks to promote appropriate investment in young people and the creation of quality and secure jobs. i welcome the fact that more than eur 12.4 billion from the european social fund (esf) and the youth employment initiative (yei) has been earmarked to tackle youth unemployment in the new programming period. i believe that a better understanding of eu values, the functioning of the eu and european diversity is crucial both to fostering participation in the democratic process and to promoting active civic participation among young people. it is important to note that young people and youth organisations need to be involved in shaping the priorities and a new eu framework for cooperation on youth after 2018.
s&ds) madam president, i strongly believe in the potential of rural areas for job creation and development opportunities and i hope that the european commission will reflect the recommendations of this report in future proposals. i am convinced of the role of european quality schemes, in particular geographical indications and organic farming, in creating active and productive rural areas. quality, local and traditional food is part of the local livelihood and traditions and at the same time adds value to the development of local tourism. they have the potential to create and restore livelihoods in rural areas. so they should get additional funding and measures. i would like to draw attention to the role of so-called free trade agreements, which represent a real threat to european farmers, especially small and medium-sized producers and businesses. we're competing with each other through these agreements. it will have an impact on food quality and indirectly on production and environmental standards. that's why i'm against them. they serve neither the bulgarian nor the european farmer.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. it is clear, that there are certain aspects of the cap, which should be improved, such as simplifying the cap for individual farmers by providing better access to services and promoting research. however, the report is often overly prescriptive and in disregard of the important role of member states in this matter. especially when it comes to taxation and security, it is up to the member states to decide. furthermore, whilst i would gladly support improvements on the cap, the report also goes way beyond the current debate and issues on some matters, which in my opinion, are not realistic at this point.
in writing. ‒ agriculture is very important sector in the eu economy which currently employs 22.2 million people. it is important to note that predominantly rural areas cover nearly 52 % of the eu’s territory and are home to 112 million people. unfortunately, these rural areas have been particularly hard hit by the economic crisis. because of that, many rural areas in the eu are facing socio-economic challenges such as depopulation, high unemployment rates, lower levels of income, lack of opportunities for young people and women, and lower level of education and skills. in this context, cap is one of the eu’s main tools for action in rural areas. with its total budget of eur 408.3 billion, it involves large transfers of funds to rural areas, with an impact on job creation. however, currently cap cannot create the expected job numbers because direct payments from the policy are not fairly distributed among farmers and cap procedures are quite complicated and slow. therefore, in order to improve cap effectiveness in job creation in rural areas, better distribution among small and medium-sized farms should be introduced and cap procedures should be simplified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol. the proposed report on the approval of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine provides for the exchange of expertise, general situational reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods, participation in training, consultation and support for specific criminal investigations. i believe that ukraine is becoming increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, and more specifically drug-related crime and economic crime, human trafficking and smuggling, as well as mobile organised crime groups. the exchange of information will allow the eu, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of transnational crime more effectively. in addition to the exchange of information, the agreement also creates new opportunities, such as training and crime prevention activities. the conclusion of this cooperation agreement is a very concrete and significant step towards ukraine becoming a key partner in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that we should approve the proposed operational and strategic agreement between europol and ukraine, providing for the exchange of information, including personal data. indeed, there are many reasons why europol needs to deepen its operational cooperation with ukraine. first and foremost, ukraine remains source country for organised crime, more specifically drug related crimes, economic crimes, human trafficking and smuggling. second, exchange of information will enable the eu, member states and ukraine to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime more effectively. third, reinforced security cooperation between the eu and ukraine is complementary with the rapprochement taking place in other areas such as the mobility of european and ukrainian citizens. last but not least, we should support the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with ukraine, because it will pave the way for ukraine to become a key eu partner in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i supported the establishment of a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks, as i consider this to be a very important step in the effort to restore cod stocks in the northern waters of the eu. the adopted plan aims to strengthen and extend cooperation between fisheries scientists and the sector. we have seen successful projects in a number of fisheries sectors related to atlantic cod. they aim to reduce catches of cod and to limit discards to the sea, while maintaining sustainable catch levels of the target species. this decision satisfies all interested parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to information by tax authorities for the purpose of combating money laundering. the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance, including in relation to money laundering, is an absolute priority of the union, which needs to ensure effective control by the relevant institutions carrying out a comprehensive audit, which could not happen without access to information direct, timely and comprehensive. information regularly entered into harmonised ict systems between member states will improve the functioning of all levels of administrative cooperation. the proposal for a directive also stresses the importance of exchanging up-to-date information that will contribute to an effective investigation. the directive, implemented in the national legislation of each member state, should help and make much more reliable the work of public institutions in the fight against tax fraud.
in writing. ‒ we should support and adopt the commission’s proposal to amend directive 2011/16/eu so that tax authorities with anti-money-laundering (aml) responsibilities in any eu country can have consistent access to aml information, procedures, documents and mechanisms in other member states. in this sense, it is important to note that including aml information in mandatory automatic exchanges between national tax authorities will be an important step in the fight against tax avoidance and evasion because it will improve tax transparency. nevertheless, i call on the eu to extend the scope of aml information available to national tax authorities with regard to virtual currency exchange services and custodial wallet providers to limit money laundering in the digital age.
in writing. ‒ the discontent that european citizens have felt towards the eu in recent years is not an unexplained phenomenon. this can be largely explained by the fact that the main burden of dealing with the financial and economic crisis has been and continues to be borne by ordinary people. meanwhile, powerful figures with substantial wealth are escaping legal and financial liability through offshore centres, such as those revealed in the 'panama papers'. in this context, i expressed my support for this resolution because it outlines the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance, including in relation to money laundering, as a top priority for the eu. i hope that as this fight is put on the eu agenda, concrete policy action will follow to eliminate offshore centres globally.
in writing. – recent media leaks exposed the large-scale concealment of offshore funds. the main new element of the report is that the tax authorities of a member state shall automatically exchange the documents and information on aml with any other member state. as a substitute member in the econ committee, i supported this report because i believe that better cooperation is essential to ensure that member states can counter money-laundering practices better.
in writing. ‒ this report is the european parliament's response to the annual report of the european central bank (ecb) for 2015. i am pleased to see that mr tremosa's report addresses the ecb's policy in a sensible way. it was high time we saw critical language on problematic issues, such as low and even negative interest rates. however, for me and my group, there are important elements in the report that contradict our ideas. we disagree with the asset purchase program aimed at long-term refinancing operations, and we don't understand why the negative interest rate policy was imposed. it is important to emphasise that we take a much more critical view of the banking union and we differ from the view expressed in the report. because of the strengths and weaknesses of the report, i voted to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ecb's annual report for 2015. i believe that the commitment of the european central bank in august 2012 to 'do whatever is necessary' to protect the euro has made a significant contribution to ensuring the financial stability of the euro area. i believe that a well-functioning, diversified and integrated capital market will support the transmission channels of the single monetary policy. in this context, i call for the gradual completion and full implementation of the banking union and for full compliance by member states with the related legislation, as well as for the building of a capital markets union, as this is a decisive step to increase the effectiveness of the single monetary policy and to reduce the risks arising from shocks in the financial sector. addressing the non-performing loans problem for the most affected national banking sectors is essential to restore the smooth functioning of the monetary policy transmission mechanism for the euro area as a whole. i believe that the ecb needs to examine how the implementation of monetary policy differs between member states with centralised and concentrated banking sectors and those with a more diverse network of local and regional banks, and between countries that rely more on banks or capital markets to finance the economy.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the european central bank’s (ecb) annual report for 2015 stresses that the euro area continues to suffer from a high level of unemployment, excessive low inflation, low level of productivity growth, lack of investment and large macroeconomic imbalances. to this point, ecb continues to underline the urgency of much-needed structural reforms and sound fiscal policies in the euro area. the report also expresses caution in a number of fields such as low interest rates, a damaging reduction in bank profitability, inflation of asset bubbles and impediments to the sound functioning of pension funds. therefore, on the basis of the european central bank’s (ecb) annual report for 2015, i urge the eu to put pressure on member states in order to implement vital structural reforms as soon as possible. furthermore, i call on the eu to facilitate the completion of banking union and to encourage the establishment of a capital market union. i certainly believe that these actions would be a decisive step towards improving the effectiveness of the single monetary policy and ensuring the financial stability of the euro area.
in writing. – as a substitute member in the econ committee, i supported this report because it provides a good assessment of the interplay of monetary policies and structural reforms and the risks of low interest rate policies. the text as finally adopted takes a balanced assessment of the asset purchase programme (app) of the ecb. it does not call for an expansion but requests an impact study concerning secondary markets for public debt.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. this report is a response to the commission's green paper on retail financial services, with the aim of launching a debate on the possible opening of the european financial services market. markets across the european union are very diverse in nature due to regional and national characteristics and this is also the case for financial services within the eu. i agree that better coordination and exchange can be of great benefit, and i welcome the fact that the rapporteur has produced a fairly balanced report, taking into account many proposals from other political groups. some of the proposals that i support and that have been included are a reference to a common tax identification number, alignment of the summary of the prospectus with the key information document for retail and insurance-based investment product packages (ripipip), the european supervisory authorities to increase their activities on consumer and retail investor issues, and a call for intensified work against the geoblocking principle applied by a legislative proposal targeting the financial sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the green paper on retail financial services because i believe that differences in tax, social, legal, health, contract and consumer protection systems, as well as different national specificities, cannot be overcome by means of digitalisation alone. i consider it essential to promote positive developments in the retail financial services market by creating and maintaining a level playing field between all participants, subject to rules that are as neutral as possible with regard to technology and business models. to be a leading market for innovation, and to enable consumers to have better choice at lower prices, europe must put a strong emphasis on creating an eu market where well-protected consumers have equal opportunities and access to products at good value for money.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because the objective of the green paper on retail financial services is to consult on the next steps toward creating a more integrated european market for retail financial services for both consumers and businesses. thus, the green paper in the eu works in the interests of consumers and gives them the best deals, better products, more choice, and greater opportunities regardless of their age, skills and country of residence. in this context, i would like to note that the green paper comes at the right time because digitalisation is now opening up new possibilities for consumers, investors, smes and other companies in terms of competition and cross-border activities. therefore, i urge the eu to coordinate the green paper with the process of digitalisation, because this in practice represents a golden opportunity to link financial actors established all around europe to consumers residing all around europe. in a long term perspective, such a link between green paper and digitalisation could foster job creation, sustainable growth, financial stability and the role of the consumer in the european economy.
in writing. ‒ the retail financial services sector in the eu is currently underdeveloped and highly fragmented. this is clearly reflected in the amount of fintech funding in europe, which amounts to just us$348 million. by comparison, in north america and china, which are direct competitors of the eu in this sector, fintech funding amounts to 1.8 and 2.6 billion respectively. against this background, i have advocated this resolution because it focuses on digitalisation as a way to develop the retail financial services market in europe. it can help to unlock the potential of this sector by making it more attractive to the european consumer through easier product comparison, better access to cross-border investment and faster registration and payment processes. i supported this resolution because i believe that the use of personal data and big data by financial service providers should be strictly limited to the data needed to improve retail financial services in the eu.
in writing. – this report is the parliament contribution to the consultation process opened with the commission green paper. the objective is to decide how the european market for retail financial services – namely insurance, loans, payments, current and savings accounts and other retail investments – can be further opened up, bringing better results for consumers and firms whilst maintaining an adequate level of consumer and investor protection. as a member of the imco and substitute member of the econ committees i fully support the digitisation and portability of services, issues which have been taken on board in this report.
in writing. ‒ new conditions and continuing threats to security in europe have triggered a new debate among european politicians. two main lines emerged in the new debate. the first is that of those who want 'more europe', or in other words the federalists. the second is the one that my group and i believe is correct, namely that security and defence are the most important feature of sovereignty and should be the competence of national states. i think that first of all the countries in europe should fulfill their commitment to nato and start spending 2% of gdp on defence and security, and then we can build a new defence union. that is why i voted against the report on a european defence union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which reiterates the european parliament's call for the eu to be empowered to meet citizens' security expectations. the report rightly stresses that the level of ambition needs to be significantly raised in view of the growing instability and unpredictability in our neighbourhood, and now in view of the outcome of the us presidential election. it is high time that all the possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty are exploited to ensure greater coherence and effectiveness of the union in defence matters. the report also shows that greater defence autonomy will only enhance nato's credibility. the report also devotes particular attention to research and industrial base issues, for which adequate resources are urgently needed. finally, the european defence union must be seen in the context of the common defence and security policy and the coherence of internal and external policies, in a world where security threats originate both within and outside the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because nowadays the eu and the member states face many complex and interconnected security threats such as terrorism, violation of international law by third countries, energy insecurity, cyber attacks and hybrid warfare. undoubtedly, the current state of the csdp does not allow the eu and the member states to address effectively these security threats. the inefficiency of the csdp can be regarded as one of the reasons why approximately two thirds of eu citizens would like to see greeter eu engagement in matters of security and defence policy. we should not turn a blind eye to the fact that in times of rising euroscepticism and nationalism, eu citizens increasingly regard security as a high priority and want the eu to show greater leadership. offering our citizens security makes the establishment of the european defence union (edu) a matter of urgency. i strongly believe that the establishment of edu starts from a thoroughly revised csdp, based on a strong collective defence principle, efficient financing and coordination with nato. in a long term perspective, the establishment of edu will foster the process of european integration, the eu’s role in world politics, safety and security of eu citizens.
in writing. – the eu needs to reflect about its defence policy in the long term. i supported this report, due to the fact that current increasing security challenges and complexities make this defence policy a more pertinent task. the level of eu ambitions in the area of defence need to significantly increase and be coupled with political will at the highest level to unleash the potential of the treaties (i.e. permanent structured cooperation) in this regard. this will help to ensure long-term security of the eu and its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the report and the commission's new legislative proposals to simplify and improve the common rules on the safety of passenger ships in eu waters, with a view to enhancing safety and competition by clarifying and simplifying the rules and taking account of legal and technological developments. however, there is still an additional need to simplify the existing regulatory framework in order to remove outdated or overlapping requirements. greater attention needs to be paid to the safety of crew and passengers on coastal vessels in the context of uncontrolled flows of illegal migrants to europe by sea. i believe that further improvements are needed to develop integrated ticketing schemes and to increase reliability and frequency. a framework for ensuring connections with islands, island regions and remote areas should be promoted, with measures to facilitate better quality ferries and suitable terminals. all this is well described in the report and that is why i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on unlocking the potential of passenger transport by water, as waterborne passenger transport, including sea ferries, river ferries, barges and cruise ships, plays a key role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector. most of europe's daily commuters travel by road, and this creates congestion, congestion and delays on europe's urban routes. more efficient use of available waterborne passenger transport capacity can not only help reduce congestion and co2 emissions, but can also improve air quality and provide better transport services overall. the geographical characteristics of europe, including many rivers, waterways, estuaries, long coastlines and islands, create exceptional opportunities for water transport. there are many areas in europe where water travel would be more sustainable, easier and faster, thus increasing the social and economic well-being of the region, while protecting the environment and the health of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ waterborne passenger transport (wpt) is a very important transport sector for the eu and member states. the importance of the wpt sector comes from the fact that some ferry connections are lifelines – vital for territorial, social and economic cohesion in the true sense – connecting outermost regions to the mainland and the economic and industrial growth areas, thus contributing to european cohesion and integration. in addition, the wpt sector plays a crucial role in development of tourism, in particular in remote and peripheral regions of the union such as coastal, island lake and rural regions. looking from this perspective, i supported the resolution because the wpt sector is sustainable and efficient mode of transport for eu citizens. importantly, we should support the wpt sector by making policies that address safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness as well as service quality, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility. in this sense, we should put the wtp sector at the top of the eu’s maritime transport policy strategy to 2018.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because it focuses on a measure that would not only benefit the development of river tourism in my country, but i believe it would also improve the daily lives of many of my fellow citizens. the resolution calls on the commission to support infrastructure investment in passenger transport by water, in particular in the hinterland of populated areas. i believe that such investments are of great benefit to the bulgarian citizens who live near the danube river and other rivers in the interior of the country. first, they help to reduce congestion in large river-side cities, improving their environmental performance and increasing their comfort and quality of life. secondly, such infrastructure can provide services to provide remote areas and develop the capacity of river tourism in the country.
in writing. – waterborne passenger transport, including maritime ferries, inland ferries, barges and cruises, plays a crucial role in achieving a more sustainable and efficient european transport sector, assisted by policies that address safety, environmental standards, cross-border cooperation and competitiveness as well as service quality, passenger rights and barrier-free accessibility. as a member coming from a country with access to the river danube, i support this report because i believe that a better and more efficient framework for travelling on waterborne passenger transport will be beneficial to the member states economies and the cities with access to major rivers.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by my colleague, mrs preda, on improving the effectiveness of development cooperation. the eu and its member states could work on new initiatives to develop trilateral cooperation projects, attracting new donors and middle-income countries. the eu could be more active in engaging national parliaments, local authorities and individuals in programming and financial commitments related to development assistance by publishing country-specific views on development cooperation. i support the logic of the draft report, as more needs to be done (with less financial resources) both at eu and global level to increase the effectiveness of development aid. it endorses all the proposed policy principles in particular the need to partner with the private sector through blending and public-private partnerships.
in writing. i voted in favour of this excellent report, which contributes to a clear and precise positioning of the european union in the process of implementing the 2030 agenda and achieving the sustainable development goals. while reiterating the importance of the commitment to allocate 0.7% of gdp to development aid, the report encourages an innovative and pragmatic approach, also aimed at mobilising private investment. in addition, the report places particular emphasis on the importance of inclusiveness and partnerships with all actors to achieve the sdgs. i am also pleased that the report takes into account the role of women and the importance of gender equality in ensuring the effectiveness of development cooperation. finally, the report has the merit of recalling the extremely close link between improving transparency, good governance and the rule of law in developing countries and the effectiveness of development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation, as it supports the eu's long-term commitment to developing standards for the effectiveness of development aid and to the adoption of the 2030 agenda. the eu is a major financial donor in support of the development of countries in financial difficulty, and a key factor in the fight to eradicate poverty by 2030. i welcome the idea of a global partnership and the joint setting of sustainable development priorities and the effectiveness of development cooperation between international donors, national governments, the private sector and civil society. international cooperation will help to make aid more effective where it is needed most. i believe that the eu should play a leading role in international efforts to make progress on the development effectiveness agenda. at the same time, the eu must be a guarantor of peace, respect for human rights and the rule of law as the basic preconditions for the transparent management of the resources allocated to the beneficiary countries. the main commitment of these countries is to pursue a transparent and targeted policy to achieve the 2030 agenda's sustainable development goals.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because the eu is the world’s biggest development aid donor and as such it has a special responsibility to improve the effectiveness of aid and development cooperation. in fact, this is necessary because aid and development effectiveness can play a crucial role in implementation of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the achievement of the sdgs. in this context, the eu should enhance the accountability, transparency and visibility of eu aid in order to improve its quality and thus help developing countries achieve the millennium development goals. the eu has played a major role both in building the current standards for aid and development effectiveness, and in the adoption of agenda 2030, therefore i believe it should continue to assume leadership on these issues. last but not least, aid and development effectiveness is in the interest of the eu because the fragmentation of the aid effort means an additional cost of between eur 2 and 3 billion a year for the eu. certainly, with more effective aid delivery and development cooperation the eu can ‘do more, with less’.
in writing. ‒ i supported mr preda's resolution as i believe that the global partnership for effective development cooperation should be seen in the context of the implementation of the 2030 agenda and the addis ababa action agenda. account should be taken of the fact that the emphasis is shifting from 'aid effectiveness', which refers to traditional public development aid, to the concept of 'development cooperation effectiveness'. development assistance and cooperation are necessary but insufficient factors for effectively eradicating poverty and promoting the sustainable development goals. this is why i believe that the eu can learn from the experience of countries such as china, brazil, russia and india, which have expertise and technology in the field of development. given that development aid plays an important role in combating poverty and in improving access to quality public services for the most vulnerable groups in need, i support the idea of codifying and strengthening mechanisms and practices. i believe that this would contribute to better complementarity and effective coordination of development aid between countries.
in writing. – the eu has a long-standing commitment to improving aid and development effectiveness through development cooperation. i voted in favour of this report because it reaffirms the importance of official development aid and sustainable financing for development, while promoting an approach that goes beyond aid and aid-providing agendas. placing the un sdgs at the centre of the development cooperation global framework, the report insists on the need for a concrete and measurable impact of development policies. to this end, they should be coherent and ensure domestic ownership. in this regard, the involvement of local actors and civil society is imperative.
madam president, madam high representative, first of all, on the humanitarian front, we must continue our efforts to secure humanitarian aid, protect civilians and in particular facilitate a general truce around aleppo. our action at local level, as you rightly pointed out, is paramount. secondly, madam high representative, you deserve our congratulations and all our encouragement in the mediation work you are doing in trying to create the conditions for the resumption of an intra-syrian political process under the auspices of the united nations. the union can find its place as a mediator under your leadership. the contacts of the diplomatic world with regional actors are essential, but at other levels too the union must anticipate its actions, including in the field of reconciliation. with which actors from civil society, academia, religion and the economic world do you expect to work? the inclusiveness of the process is essential for a sustainable political solution. finally, the union will have to help in the reconstruction of the country. we must anticipate the immense work of physical reconstruction, the return of refugees, the restoration of economic infrastructure and the creation of jobs. it will not be up to us to create or implement a post-war strategy, but up to the syrians. for our part, if we want to be a credible and reliable partner for the syria of tomorrow, we must ensure that we are there at the right time, without delay and without delay. you answered in your introduction to my question 'how are we preparing with regional partners?' and i encourage you to continue in this direction.
a question asked by raising a blue card. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, do you not think that the turkish president's behaviour is much more dictatorial and much more unacceptable than ever for the principles that are declared in this union? don't you think that the illegal occupation of cyprus, that the intervention in syria is also incompatible with democratic principles, with the governance that should be part of the european union? don't you think that persecuting people, shutting down newspapers is an expression of a dictatorship that should be punished? do you not think that this country should be punished by the termination of membership negotiations and by monetary sanctions?
madam president, mrs vice-president mogherini, commissioner and dear colleagues, turkey’s integration in the european structure started a long time ago but unfortunately we still do not see conclusive results. turkey is not just a candidate country, it is also a geo-strategic partner for the eu and we should support the positive development in the area of mutual beneficial cooperation. together we experienced so many challenges that could be overcome only in close partnership. turkey has a robust functioning market economy and it is the fifth largest trade partner of the eu, while the union is its main trading partner. there is also a big untapped potential for further development in this area. the recent coup d’état attempt created turmoil in the society that could be overcome not least by the sincerest european support for turkey’s democratic institutions, including the government, opposition parties and the civil society organisations. in this regard, a suspension of the negotiation process will be counterproductive. if we interrupt this process, how will we ensure continual support to civil society and the inflows and acceleration of the necessary reforms? as part of the accession negotiations, if we have succeeded to open chapters 23 and 24 using the administrative capacity of the european institutions, it would have been possible to synchronise the legislative framework of turkey with the european one. we consider that this is the way to continue working with a democratic, inclusive and stable country. otherwise, by suspending the negotiating process will contribute to the weakening of civil society and the pro-european path of the people of turkey.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank vice-president mogherini for the very varied debate which has taken place in this house. i think that will be reflected in the decision. i can only repeat that our annual report on turkey has presented the facts objectively. unfortunately, we have had to paint - i would almost say - a gloomy picture again, which, as i have seen today, is shared by this house quite unanimously. turkey has been moving away from the european union for some time - one could almost say for some years - and not towards the european union. this is the reality we must face and cannot deny. in this great house of democracy, everyone knows what must happen: we need an end to the erosion of democracy and a clear commitment by turkey to the rule of law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules of the treaty are respected, and that the council of ministers has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the treaty is respected. it is therefore in turkey's interest to document this, both politically and economically. the current situation could very quickly lead to and be accompanied by a very serious loss of stability, particularly in the south-east of turkey, but also in the middle east as a whole. we need first of all clarity from turkey itself on its strategy - i am not saying whether it wants to join the eu or not, but on its strategy - how it really wants to handle it in terms of the european perspective. the turkish leadership must understand that it is leading its country further and further away from a credible eu perspective. no one should therefore underestimate the seriousness of the situation. and i think the wording here today was very clear. federica mogherini and i myself were able to clearly state at the foreign ministers' council a little over a week ago that the member states are not yet willing to take drastic steps, but are relying largely on commitment - on our commitment, on the commitment of all of us, including that of the member states themselves. we must therefore continue to insist that turkey respects the democratic and rule of law commitments it has made itself. i must remind you again: turkey - and this was its own objective - is a candidate country, and a candidate country has to take note that it is committed to the highest and highest standards. no deduction can be made in this direction either. but there are also red lines, and that has been shown many times today. i repeat, and i stress very strongly, that the introduction of the death penalty, for example, should be such a clear, dark red line. we should not forget that the abolition of the death penalty in 2004 was a key condition for the opening of the 2005 trial. one thing is clear: turkey will always remain a close partner in all areas: trade, migration, foreign and security policy, energy. geography is destiny that's not the question. what we need is a turkey that is clear about its own perspective, its own role. and it should also be a turkey that is not made up of erdoğan, so to speak, and that is our commitment as well. we are talking about 80 million people, many of whom have a clear european perspective. we should always be concerned about supporting this.
in writing. turkey, today ruled by a neo-ottoman dictator, is a threat to the territorial integrity of its neighbours and hence to the eu. the long-standing blindness of european leaders, who until a year ago saw neo-ottoman turkey as a key strategic partner, and the toothlessness of european politics have allowed the would-be sultan to do as he pleases. we have witnessed a successful coup that has allowed the dictator to drastically violate all human, civil and political rights. his allies daesh islamists and the grey wolves, beheaded nato soldiers in the squares of istanbul, ankara and diyarbakir, carried out and are carrying out ethnic cleansing. the dictator uses the situation to get rid of the kurdish opposition and to show that the kurds will either comply with his policy or they will suffer the fate of the armenians of 1915, to illegally invade syria and iraq and try to annex their territories. it uses unacceptable human tragedies to blackmail the eu and to pursue its internal and external policy objectives. the negotiations with turkey must be stopped, the pre-accession funds must be stopped. in this vein, my colleagues and i collected a petition against turkey's accession to the eu back in 2010 and we continue to believe that this country has not been and will never be part of european civilization.
mr president, the european union should have done a lot more for its security a long time ago. this is the expectation of the majority of european citizens, as well as that of our partners in the united states. we should not duplicate our capacity with that of nato, but complement it. joint procurement of equipment, joint investment in defence research and development, joint training of our military personnel, joint command and joint defence against hybrid attacks. this is about concrete steps that need to be taken, and in the foreseeable future, madam high representative. if we really want to play any role in the world, not be marginalized -- we are 7% of the world's population, we have over 25% of the gross domestic product that the european union holds, and we distribute over 50% of all social goods -- in order to be able to protect that, we have to invest in our security, ms. mogerini, and i welcome what you have proposed. but it must become a fact, not just a word that we have heard for decades on our continent. we need common defence, common security for european citizens.
madam president, commissioner, in recent years we have unfortunately seen aggressive attempts to question the democratic foundations of the european union and undermine our political unity. manipulations are being spread, half-truths, outright lies. the internet, social media and media trolls, news and disinformation agencies are used to incite hatred against the eu. i'll give you two examples from my side. at the beginning of the year, several websites, part of the hybrid war against the eu, and there are dozens of them in my country, spread the information that the european court of justice had banned and criminalized the baptism of children in the church. this week, the report we're discussing has become the subject of a new attack on the european union, with similar media outlets claiming that the european parliament is preparing a last-minute secret amendment to the report that would ban orthodoxy. these are two classic examples of hybrid information warfare and show why the european union must counter propaganda and why today's debate is absolutely timely and necessary. i am very sorry to hear from my colleagues in the european socialists and democrats that they will abstain from voting. if we're not united on this, we're not going to be effective. the most egregious attacks on media freedom and religious freedom in eastern european countries were committed by the communist regimes themselves, which tried to impose communism as the state religion, following the instructions of the kremlin. the european institutions need to monitor and analyse disinformation campaigns against the eu. i therefore welcome the 'east stratcom' task force within the european external action service (eeas) to analyse and counter anti-eu propaganda and disinformation. the report... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. – i have always said that we cannot guarantee jobs or income to our citizens. but today we are talking about equipping people with skills, and this is a very welcome development. with this, we are making a strong political commitment to support the relentless development of our creative people. i welcome the commission’s skills guarantee. particularly, defining digital skills as basic capabilities marks a major development in mindset – being tech savvy is a key competence in life. in order to make the new skills strategy work, we should: create a culture of learning across europe – individuals must feel disposed to learn throughout their lives and confident in doing so; ‘embed’ basic skills – integrating literacy, language and numeracy learning into other trainings for a holistic approach to learning; ensure collaboration with employers and businesses, demonstrating basic skills training is an investment rather than a cost; and, most importantly, develop a strategic perspective, bringing together an understanding of the wider context and awareness of the need to adapt or change previous practice. following these steps, we can truly upskill our younger and older generations. тhis is crucial, because skills are the currency of the 21st century, they are europe’s strongest asset.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, three years have passed since the publication of the clean air act, a time of long but important debate and search for acceptable solutions for cleaner and healthier air in our towns and villages. i support the compromise reached with the council on the new directive, which sets ambitious targets for reducing air pollution by 2030. recent attention has focused on greenhouse gas emissions, and this has led to a slowdown in the reduction of other pollutants that have serious impacts on human health and the environment. for example, the growth of diesel cars due to lower co2 emissions has led to an increase in harmful nitrogen oxides from them. almost 400 000 people in the eu die prematurely from polluted air, and another 40 million people breathe in dust particles far above the norm. the new legislation must restore confidence in emissions reductions with its ambitious targets and sound control mechanisms. i welcome the considerable flexibility given to member states to achieve their individual objectives set out in the directive, as this will help to identify the most effective and appropriate measures to tackle the problem. the directive is particularly valuable in its concern for agriculture and its specificity for response, even though the sector is responsible for most of the ammonia and methane emissions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. i am definitely awaiting an opinion of the court of justice of the european communities on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed agreement between canada and the european union (ceta) , requiring parliament to suspend its consent procedure for the agreement. i personally do not agree with the idea that the opinion of the legal services of the european parliament is sufficient. an agreement of this scale is not sufficient and legally adequate, assessed solely by the legal service of the ep. this assessment cannot replace a court judgment or national legal discretion. the court of justice of the european communities is the appropriate binding instrument for delivering an opinion. national parliaments have not even started, nor have they had enough time for the procedures of analysis, legal control and ratification and have simply expressed a political, legally non-binding readiness to further develop trade relations with canada. moreover, according to the procedural rules for the negotiation and implementation of this type of international agreements, the necessary assessment of each member state, which will make its own individual analysis at national level, would be required, after which the procedure for ratification and implementation of ceta could be initiated, and without an appropriate preliminary assessment, only further political and procedural issues would be raised.
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the proposed resolution to request an opinion from the court of justice of the eu on the trade agreement with canada (seta). the resolution argues that there is legal uncertainty as to whether the agreement (and in particular the new investor-state dispute settlement system) is compatible with the treaties. i would remind you that this very issue was referred to the european parliament's legal service back in the spring and it came to the conclusion that none of the text in the chapter on investments in ceta is in conflict with the eu treaties. i have no reason not to trust the lawyers working in the legal department of the european parliament, which is not tied to political groups. the purpose of the resolution was more to delay ratification. the trial itself would take about a year and a half. to use legal procedures in this way, just to delay the decision-making process, is wrong to say the least. the best possible outlook for bulgaria is currently in place: provisional application of the agreement, a procedure for its approval in each individual member state and a clear commitment to visa waiver. let us not confine the discussion of ceta to the european parliament. it is high time that a broad, evidence-based public debate was held in the member states.
in writing. - i voted for this file. as part of the revised national emission ceilings directive (necd), part of the commission's clean air package, it replaces the current union regime of the annual national emission ceiling for air pollutants as set out in directive 2001/81/ec for sulphur dioxide (so2), nitrogen oxides (nox), non-methane volatile organic compounds (nmvocs) and ammonia (nh3) until 2020. the new directive will create new national emission reduction commitments applicable from 2020 and 2030 for these pollutants, as well as for fine particulate matter (pm2.5) and methane (ch4). i support the view that member states should have some flexibility in achieving the 2030 targets, as the situations and requirements for achieving those targets differ drastically between them, but that the wording itself should be fine-tuned to ensure that the provisions are not open to abuse. as this is for the health of all citizens in all member states of the european union, this issue must be a priority. methane is excluded from the scope as the commission confirmed that it would carry out a review of methane even if it is not mentioned in the directive.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement reached on reducing national emissions of certain air pollutants, as i believe that new concrete targets are needed to reduce air pollution, which is a major problem for both the environment and human health. i support the new national targets set for reducing emissions of five major air pollutants by 2030 and the specific commitments provided in the report to adopt national control programmes. the eu is a major player in the fight against climate change, partly caused by air and environmental pollution. at the same time, the health of european citizens must be a core commitment for the eu. for this reason, i believe it is necessary for member states to commit themselves to meeting their specific emission reduction commitments under the directive.
in writing. ‒ after years of political neglect, air pollution has become the single largest environmental cause of premature death in urban europe, productivity loss, crop yield loss and damage to buildings. over the last couple of decades, emission reductions have led to improvements in air quality in europe, but not enough to avoid an unacceptable 400 000 premature deaths in europe and growing damage to environment. i supported the resolution because the growing air pollution represents a real health threat to the eu, its member states and citizens. i call particularly on member states to adopt and implement national air pollution control programmes with a view to meeting their emission reduction requirements and to contributing effectively to the achievement of the union air quality objectives. most importantly, in order to reduce emissions from the main contributors, national air pollution control programmes should include measures applicable to all relevant sectors, including agriculture, industry, road transport, non-road mobile machinery, inland and domestic shipping, domestic heating and solvents.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the finalisation of basel iii. basel iii is a comprehensive set of reform measures developed by the basel committee on banking supervision aimed at strengthening regulation, supervision and risk management in the banking sector. they aim to improve the capacity of the banking sector to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, irrespective of its source, and to improve risk management and governance, enhance transparency and disclosure of banks. i believe that a sound and well-capitalised banking system is a prerequisite for preserving financial stability and supporting economic growth.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the finalisation of basel iii because i believe it is our duty to ensure a sustainable and well-capitalised banking system. bulgaria is one of the countries that has experienced a banking collapse. in my country, it was born out of the revelation of the ktb financial pyramid. the bank's bankruptcy has raised a number of questions among citizens about the stability of the banking system in the country and the control of banks. therefore, i believe that the reforms enshrined in basel iii, focused on the enhancement of the risk sensitivity and stability of the standardised approach to credit risk, the further restrictions on the internal modelling approach and the finalisation of the definition of the leverage ratio and potential capital base, will contribute to the stability of banks. the banks must be well capitalised in order to provide real support to the economy. we need to take the necessary measures to prevent systemic risks and to reduce the possibility of large-scale bailouts. the stability of banks in the eu is a step towards a stable economy for the member states.
mr president, unfortunately nowadays the eu and its member states live in a more dangerous and less predictable security environment. we are facing a broad and evolving set of challenges, both conventional and hybrid. despite the fact that these challenges represent common risks and threats to the security of the eu, they affect us differently. consequently the member states react to them in an uncoordinated and fragmented way. therefore, i strongly believe that a substantial revision of the common security and defence policy will enable the eu to effectively cooperate and coordinate their efforts and capabilities in order to contribute in a decisive way to the security of the union. working from this perspective, a revised csdp will not only assert the european union’s strategic autonomy and strengthen its resilience, but will also further enhance political integration within the eu. this strategy should be based on a strong collective defence principle, efficient financing and should be implemented in coordination with international institutions in the field of security and defence, particularly in full complementarity with nato.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because i believe that the call for wider eu competences in the field of security and defence is unacceptable. the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe. i am part of the latter group because i believe that europe will be stronger if it returns to the idea of a 'europe of nations'. i believe that security is the exclusive competence of the member states and should remain so. security and defence are the last mark of sovereignty of the member states and i will continue to uphold these views.
in writing. – i have voted in favour because security is a priority for european citizens. no country can face the current security challenges on its own. first, because the changing european neighbourhood and complex crises have showed that internal and external security are becoming more and more intertwined. therefore the eu should be empowered to act along the entire spectrum of internal and external instruments. secondly, because over the last years, csdp cooperation, such as border assistance, capacity building and training in the (broader) eu neighbourhood has proven its benefit. we should strengthen existing csdp tools and use them more efficiently. i encourage further cooperation and coordination between member states, also in the framework of the provisions of the treaty of lisbon, with the commitment, ownership and support of member states and national parliaments. i therefore welcome the roadmap on csdp that vp/hr mogherini will present, with a concrete timetable and actions. finally, i welcome all references to increased dialogue and enhanced cooperation on security and defence with international institutions and third countries. without duplicating nato structures, we should strengthen the partnership, in full complementarity. cooperation, be it between eu member states or with partner countries and institutions, will entail practical and financial benefits.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy because i believe that the security of european citizens is of paramount importance to the eu. the eu needs an adequate defence and security policy today more than ever to protect its borders, to be able to prevent crises and to pursue an active policy against hybrid warfare. i think the eu and the member states should invest more in their own defence. building common defence capabilities and more investment in common defence equipment procurement, common defence sector science, common training of military personnel and building common intelligence and counter-intelligence activities is of paramount importance. i support the idea that the eu should have its own strategic defence, complementing nato's capabilities, not duplicating them. nato is a strategic partner of the eu with which it has close cooperation, but in today's conditions of migration and crises, the eu needs its own defence alliance with which to safeguard security and peace in europe.
in writing. ‒ in the face of a radically changed international environment, the eu needs a new approach and a new security strategy. the report underlines that europe is no longer in full control of its security environment and calls on the eu to adapt to new challenges by making more effective use of existing csdp tools. the report calls for better cooperation and coordination between member states, especially in the field of counter-terrorism. the report also fully supports further strengthening of security and defence cooperation with other institutional partners such as the un.
in writing. – the european security environment is deteriorating considerably, and the eu need to find ways to react to an arc of increasingly complex crises in its neighbourhoods. i strongly believe the eu needs to do that in a coherent and coordinated manner, pursuing a common approach, and in collaboration with nato and other partners. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, as a member of this parliament and as a representative of one of the member states of the european union, i wish to express my deep disappointment and dismay at the language of hatred that some of my colleagues are using to sow seeds of hatred through such texts. i voted against this report because, in addition to the sharp language directed at a global and strategic player on the international stage russia, the report also calls into question the competence of the member states of the european union, which are not sufficiently aware that they are the audience and the arena of propaganda and disinformation. this is a flagrant insult to democratically elected governments and heads of state, as well as to the citizens of the european union themselves. the text voted on is also a blow to the development of relations with russia based on bilateral cooperation and joint projects with individual eu member states. this report is supposedly against propaganda and hate speech, and it's itself provoking it.
in writing. ‒ on 23 november, a european parliament resolution on eu strategic communication to counter propaganda against the european union by third countries was adopted. the development of technology and communication offers more and more opportunities for citizens and journalists to exercise their freedoms. at the same time, the internet, as a tool with potential dual use, poses a number of dangers. the eu must do everything possible to preserve the values of democracy and media pluralism, freedom of expression, but also to ensure that its citizens are well informed. identifying the direct threats posed by russian propaganda and the disinformation campaign of constructs such as daesh is a key element in building a more effective eu communication policy. the only possible response from the european union is to promote media freedom, strengthen the role of the strategic communication task force and ensure greater visibility of the union's achievements. i believe that truth is the most powerful weapon in the fight against disinformation in the post-truth era and i would welcome further eu action in this direction.
in writing. ‒ following the ratification by the european union of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities in 2010, the eu institutions are now in the process of legally obliging the implementation of the provisions contained in the convention, which include accessibility and equality for all citizens with disabilities. to this end, my group of european conservatives and reformists asked for a statement from the commission accompanied by a resolution, which i supported. the aim is to put pressure on the eu institutions to fully implement the convention, which includes providing sign language translation for public events and meetings held in the eu institutions. the resolution covers qualifications, reasonable accommodation and accessibility, employment, education, training and the role of the eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ mr president, unfortunately, a large proportion of europe's citizens face various barriers preventing them from enjoying the full range of their rights. one of the most affected groups in this respect are people with disabilities, who are often placed in a situation of lack of adequate social integration and inability to realise their full potential. the lack of sign-language interpreters clearly points to this problem. it makes it difficult for people with hearing and speech impairments to obtain information from sources other than written sources, implies difficulties in learning, providing social services and actively participating in political life. i believe that a truly inclusive europe of the 21st century must strive to overcome the difficulties faced by people with disabilities by all means, as this will help to unlock their potential and ultimately to enrich the european economy.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on sign languages and professional sign language interpreters. every citizen, regardless of his or her state of health, has the right to a full, independent and equal life. accessibility should not be limited to the physical accessibility of the environment but should also refer to the accessibility of information and communication, including in the form of the provision of sign language content. i'm sure that the development of new language technologies could be of benefit to people who use sign language. the convention emphasises the need for the provision of professional sign language interpreters in order to ensure equal access to employment, education and training.
madam president, i would like to emphasise that the istanbul convention creates a comprehensive legal framework for preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. it is also a call for more gender equality, which cannot be achieved while statistics continue to show that one in three women in europe has been a victim of physical or sexual violence at least once in her life. in this context, i support the accession of the european union to the convention and call for its ratification by the member states. there are a few aspects to consider, though. first, in order to achieve the desired results, it is important to ensure that the provisions of the convention are consistent with the various national legal systems. this implies both adapting the relevant regulatory provisions at national level and providing for sufficient financial and human resources. next, i would like to emphasise the key role that close cooperation with civil society organisations has in achieving a coordinated approach to combating violence against women and raising awareness. the national campaign we ran with them in bulgaria on violence against women 'open our eyes and break the silence' showed that our cooperation can be a powerful catalyst for change. finally, it is important to continue our efforts at european level to establish a common system for collecting data on violence against women, because violence against women is not a problem of women alone. it affects all of us. the institutions must therefore be active and the accession of the european union to the convention is a decisive step in this direction.
mr president, commissioner, jordan is one of those key countries in our neighbourhood with which we have the opportunity to work concretely for the stabilization of the mediterranean region and the middle east. we know that crises and instability in the region have repercussions in europe. with jordan, we have the chance to work beyond the context of an acute crisis. i therefore welcome the compromise reached on 27 october on the initial macro-financial assistance of eur 200 million, which leaves the door open to an extension and increase of this amount in 2017. given the country's specific needs and our ambition to preserve jordan as an island of stability, our actions must be up to the challenge. secondly, i am glad that, alongside the granting of macrofinancial assistance, we can support the implementation of important structural reforms in jordan. this country, through its political and economic choices, wants to be an example of moderation and modernity in the region. jordan has done very valuable humanitarian work in hosting syrian refugees and has initiated important reforms in recent years, particularly in the political and democratic spheres. the new electoral law of last march and the smooth conduct of the elections we saw last september are another example. finally - and i will end with a question - i am convinced that we must make our partnership with jordan even closer, at all levels and through various tools. the european external investment plan is probably one of these tools, but what other initiatives are planned and what are the priority areas?
ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that good cooperation between the european union and jordan is in the common interest. the european union and jordan currently cooperate within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, which covers a range of areas, including economic development, trade, security, the role of young people and women, improving administrative capacity and human rights. unfortunately, due to its geographical location, jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the ongoing crisis in the middle east. due to the volatile situation in syria and iraq, jordan's economy suffers from low levels of tourism, foreign trade and foreign direct investment. in addition, the country's economic and social model has been under unprecedented pressure from the large number of refugees and displaced persons arriving in the country over the past five years. in this context, i support the provision of financial assistance of eur 350 million to jordan to support the economic stabilisation of the country. the union's macro-financial assistance is an exceptional crisis response instrument of the european union, which in the case of jordan will significantly contribute to the socio-economic development of the country.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, the creation of a single vat area in the eu could support a deeper and fairer single market, boosting jobs, growth, investment and competitiveness. while vat is one of the major sources of revenue in the eu, we should recognise that the current vat system is fragmented, complex for the growing number of businesses operating cross-border, and prone to fraud. the vat system needs to be reformed, and the recommendations in this regard include simplification, in order to become business-friendly; combating the growing risk of fraud; increasing efficiency, in particular exploiting the opportunities of digital technology; integrating the cost of revenue collection; enhancing trust, both between business and tax administrations and among eu member states’ tax administrations; and improving the quality of member states’ replies to information request and the reliability of the vat information exchange system. the commission and the member states should strengthen cooperation with non-eu countries and enforce vat collection. we need to implement necessary reforms in order to combat fraud efficiently, remove administrative barriers and reduce regulatory costs so as to simplify life for european businesses.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank mr langen for the efforts he has put into this report. it's obvious that we have a system that doesn't work the way we want it to work right now. and frankly, it can't be otherwise, since we introduced this methodology 40 years ago. she can't be adequate today. in this spirit, i welcome the commission's efforts and the ambitious plan it has to tackle vat fraud, as there are unscrupulous traders who generate billions in damage. i think there are a few steps we need to take to find a lasting solution to this problem. the first is a comprehensive, complete, single european union system for the payment and recovery of vat. that would make it much easier for companies that are good and honest, and it would prevent fraud. secondly, we certainly need to ease the administrative burden and the procedures for start-ups. we can't expect companies with three people to do the same as large international companies. finally, national services should communicate openly and fully.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, small and mediumsized enterprises are the main engine of the european economy, creating jobs for two thirds of the employed in europe. they also add value by having a good knowledge of the local market and are characterised by their quick reactions and proximity to customers. the transport sector in particular is one of those areas where small transport enterprises play a crucial role in the functioning of mobility in europe. transport undertakings face significant challenges to meet growing demand, mobility and are often pushed out of the market by the existence of monopolies and are subject to extreme pressure. an example of such pressure is the minimum wage requirements introduced by france and germany in this sector, which restrict the freedom to provide services and the free movement of goods in a disproportionate manner. and that, to me, is discrimination. any change in legislation must respect the fundamental freedoms of the european union and must in no way restrict fair competition and entrepreneurship.
in writing. – the eu and china are two of the biggest traders in the world. china is eu’s second largest trading partner and world’s second fastest growing economy. despite its huge economic success, china continues systematically to violate a wide range of fundamental human rights, including freedom of expression, association, assembly, religion and minority rights. the ongoing illegal detention of mr gui minhai (swedish and eu citizen) is another proof that china continues to criminalise freedom of expression and to target peaceful government critics, anti-corruption activists, lawyers and journalists. therefore, i call on chinese authorities to release immediately mr minhai and all chinese citizens who dare to express themselves freely despite repression and intimidation by chinese authorities. furthermore, i call on the eu to put preservation and protection of human rights as a top priority in its relations with china.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the provision of macro-financial assistance to jordan of eur 200 million. the country and its economy have been significantly affected by the ongoing conflicts in neighbouring iraq and syria. the commission will present its assessment next year and decide, if it deems it necessary, whether to extend and increase this aid. it is undeniable that the kingdom of jordan is making efforts to take in syrian refugees unlike some of the other countries in regions such as saudi arabia, but in the crisis situation the eu is in, it needs to be careful that the funds it allocates are used correctly by the receiving country. i believe that if this condition is met and if jordan continues to accept refugees, aid to the country should not stop.
in writing. ‒ i support the eu providing macro-financial assistance to jordan. jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the crisis in syria. the macro-financial assistance programme should be effective, as jordan is the country that has taken in the largest number of displaced persons.
in writing. the report contains our proposals for non-harmonised eu solvency requirements and a lighter funding regime, rather than the existing fully funded model. the text now allows for periods of co-financing, which is important because there are cases, such as mergers, that would prevent funds from being fully funded at any time. i therefore support the report on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. given the demographic changes in the union and the state of national budgets, occupational pension provision is an integral part of social security pension systems. a sustainable pension system shall include a wide range of products, a diversity of institutions, and effective and efficient supervisory practices, which are duly referred to in this directive. the directive will enhance the ability of occupational pension funds to invest in financial assets with a long-term economic profile and thus support the financing of growth in the real economy. the adoption of the directive will also further facilitate the mobility of workers between member states, ensuring good governance through transparency and safety.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the proposed directive will facilitate the development of occupational retirement savings. the eu and its member states need to develop occupational retirement pension systems in which eu citizens can have confidence and which will function effectively in times of economic and financial crisis, ageing population, youth unemployment and shrinking population across europe. therefore, i call on the eu and in particular member states to set up complementary second-pillar pension systems which should lead to more secure pension benefits and a more secure future for eu citizens.
i supported this resolution. it is good that in the context of the debate on the international situation, we are also debating the tragic situation in syria, that we are debating the tragedy that has occurred in the city of aleppo. it is good that we have adopted this resolution, although unfortunately the resolution itself is unlikely to have any impact on resolving this tragic international situation. the resolution well describes the problems we face in syria. it describes the role of the assad regime. a role that unfortunately russia also has today. what is important, what i find in the resolution, is that it clearly says that the war crimes that are being committed against the population in syria should not be forgotten and that in the future, hopefully, as soon as the conflict in syria is over, those who are committing war crimes should be brought to international justice and should be convicted of war crimes.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i supported and voted for this resolution because the truth about the situation in syria must be told as it is. the aggressive policy of neighboring saudi arabia, which supports islamist gangs that impose extreme, radical, salafist islamism in syria, must be exposed. the hypocrisy of some european leaders who pretend not to see the criminal role of saudi arabia must also be exposed. the role of the republic of turkey, which has already illegally invaded the territory of the republic of syria, waging illegal military action there and seeking to annex part of the territory of that state, should also be clearly identified. the role of the dictator erdogan, who supports, funds, treats, trains the fighters of the islamic state, must also be exposed. all these things need to be said and they find a place in this resolution. that's why i supported her.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the situation in syria remains extremely worrying and tense. after the damascus talks, the un special envoy for syria confirmed that the assad regime has rejected a ceasefire proposal that would have allowed the opposition to administer eastern aleppo. meanwhile, the shelling of residential areas and civilian objects continues. there has been no delivery of any humanitarian aid since july, and after last week's attacks, there is not a single functioning hospital left in eastern aleppo. this situation prolongs the suffering of the syrian people, and more than four million people continue to fight for their lives in besieged cities and hard-to-reach areas. i therefore call on the european union to press for the establishment of a no-fly zone over aleppo as soon as possible, which will facilitate the work of humanitarian workers and allow for the delivery of urgently needed aid. it is also necessary to give full support to the un in its efforts to restore political dialogue between the warring parties, but also to continue the investigation into the use of chemical weapons in syria in order to hold accountable those responsible for this crime against humanity.
in writing. ‒ the tragedy that is unfolding in syria alongside the events in aleppo, unfortunately, is nothing new against the background of what has been happening in that country for the last half a decade. the international community is also responsible for this dramatic situation, and the question of which of the countries involved in the conflict is most to blame is fruitless. a lasting solution to the military conflict in syria and the resulting refugee crisis requires intensive cooperation between countries with significant political and cultural differences, such as the eu, russia, the usa, china, turkey, egypt, iran and saudi arabia. the continuation of the war in syria is hurting syrian citizens who are directly affected by the conflict, as well as countries that will have to cope with increased refugee pressure, such as my country, bulgaria. it is for this reason that i have refrained from giving my support to the resolution on the situation in syria.
i supported this resolution, which i personally welcome. i also supported the point concerning the further negotiations on turkey's accession to the eu, i.e. that these negotiations should be suspended at this stage. unfortunately, i am afraid, as are many of my colleagues in this chamber, that after the so-called coup d'état, turkey has embarked on a path whereby the turkish state is moving away from the parameters of how we in europe perceive the principle of a democratic state based on the rule of law. the authoritarian government of the president is greatly strengthened in this country. it's good to point that out. i think it is worth saying, and i very much welcome it, that the resolution clearly states, among other things, that turkey does not at present fulfil the conditions for visa-free travel. the ep does not support a visa-free regime with turkey. i also want to draw attention to the strange detention of two czechs in turkey, where the circumstances are still unclear, and i hope that the whole thing will be cleared up soon.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted for this resolution because someone in this chamber had to say clearly and unambiguously what the nature of the dictatorial regime of turkish president erdogan is. it had to list all the human rights violations, all the media closures, the attacks on newsrooms, the arrests of journalists, the murders of journalists, the ethnic cleansing of the kurdish population, the illegal invasion of the territory of the neighboring arab republic of syria, the territorial threats that mr. erdogan makes to neighboring eu and nato member states, such as bulgaria and greece, his three statements with which he wants to revise treaties and does not recognize our territorial borders. it's quite obvious that this man is turning his presidential institution into a dictatorial one. that is why i am glad that the proposal i have been making for a year, two years, here, to freeze, to suspend the accession negotiations with turkey, has finally been heard. today is a historic day. turkey has no place in the european union because it is not a european country.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament resolution on eu-turkey relations. i support the work on visa liberalisation to be undertaken after turkey has adequately fulfilled all the conditions set out in the visa liberalisation timetable. i am deeply concerned about the conditions of detention and arrest following the coup, with allegations of torture and ill-treatment, the large-scale dismissals of civil servants who are still awaiting a fair trial, and the extremely severe restrictions on freedom of expression and on the press and media in turkey.
in writing. ‒ with this resolution, the ep is sending a clear political signal that we are not compromising on our values and principles, that we cannot trade freedom of speech, the rule of law and citizens' rights, that we are not turning a blind eye to what is happening in the country after the failed coup attempt. the eu should temporarily freeze turkey's membership negotiations and carefully assess how pre-accession aid is being used. at the same time, the resolution demonstrates that the eu stands firmly behind the turkish people and their right to free, democratic development. i believe that turkey belongs to the big family of democratic european countries. we are prepared to reconsider our position as soon as we are satisfied that the repressive measures imposed by the state of emergency, disproportionate to the threat to security, have been lifted. it is unacceptable that thousands of people, including legitimately elected opposition leaders and mps, are being thrown into prison without any substantive charges and a fair trial. all of these actions, attacks on europe as a whole, revisionism, the return of the death penalty, etc., must be seen in the context of the drive to secure the support of extreme nationalists for a strong presidential republic. in all the meetings i have had in turkey recently, the appeal of all the pro-european forces has been the same: do not leave us to our fate.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women, not because i think we should not fight this violence, but because i think the resolution prepared by the ecr was much better than the general one that was voted by the majority in parliament, and the doubts about the violation of the principle of subsidiarity in it were obvious. yet violence against women, as well as domestic violence, must be fought by all means.
in writing. i supported the adoption of a resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention as this would be a decisive step towards preventing and combating violence against women and gender-based violence. the resolution calls for the negotiations for the signature and conclusion of the agreement on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention and for its ratification by more member states to be accelerated. efforts to eradicate violence against women should be part of a comprehensive plan to combat all forms of gender inequality. this implies aligning national provisions with those of the istanbul convention and ensuring adequate financial and human resources to eliminate violence against women. the resolution also recognises the key role of ngos. cooperation between them and national institutions contributes to raising public awareness of this important issue and to the signature of the convention by member states. bulgaria is a concrete example in this regard, where the national campaign 'violence against women: open our eyes and break the silence' that i initiated encouraged victims to speak out so that society could hear them and institutions could be more actively engaged in preventing and combating violence against women and in protecting victims.
in writing. ‒ mr president, i support the eu's call for accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and for its ratification by more member states. the istanbul convention is the first instrument in europe to create a comprehensive legal framework to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence. it is a call for greater gender equality, which cannot be achieved when statistics show that one in three women in europe has been the victim of physical violence at least once in her life. it is a serious form of violation of fundamental rights, born of inequality between women and men. among the solutions the convention proposes are the creation of accessible and safe places for victims of violence, as well as the construction of specialized help centers and a telephone line. i believe that widespread awareness of the problem and accurate information will contribute to the correct and effective implementation of the convention.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the eu's accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. in the treaties and the charter of the european union, equality between women and men is a fundamental value. we must not forget that the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination is a fundamental right. i strongly support the eu's policy and long-term action on violence against women and girls and the elimination of all forms of discrimination against them.
in writing. ‒ sadly, violence against women (gender-based violence) continues to happen everywhere, in every society and eu country, regardless of social background, whether at home, at work, at school, in the street or online. the eu tries to prevent it by protecting women and children through legislation and practical measures on victims’ rights; by co-funding campaigns run by national governments and non-government organisations; by organising exchanges of good practices among eu countries and by raising awareness about the phenomenon of gender-based violence. unfortunately, little progress has been made in combating gender-based violence. i supported the resolution because we should welcome the eu’s decision to join the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the first legally binding instrument at international level. the istanbul convention leaves no doubt: there can be no real equality between women and men if women experience gender-based violence on a large-scale and state agencies and institutions turn a blind eye. importantly, the eu’s accession to the istanbul convention will enhance the eu’s accountability and its role in combating violence against women and gender-based violence on the international stage.
in writing. ‒ on 24 november 2016, we called by an overwhelming majority on the eu council and the european commission to accelerate the negotiations and final signature of the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. the convention is the first instrument in europe to create a legal framework for preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence in general. we must make it clear that such aggression is a serious violation of fundamental human rights and a manifestation of gender discrimination that cannot be allowed to happen on such a scale on our continent. according to the convention, one in three women in the european union has been a victim of violence at least once in her life. one of the main problems with preventing and prosecuting this type of crime is that it is difficult to prove because of the refusal of the victims to share it. i am convinced that we must do more to address this pan-european problem and to encourage victims to speak out against such violence, and above all to ensure their protection and the prevention of this type of aggression.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the european ombudsman presented his annual report at the meeting of the european parliament's committee on petitions on 20 june 2016. the report is presented as the previous report from 2014, highlighting the main issues and providing a wealth of information on the initiatives and actions of the european ombudsman, the use of social media to promote the ombudsman's activities, and the relevant actions by the european institutions. i also support the fact that the file addresses a number of key issues, such as the mismanagement in the functioning of the ecb as a result of a conflict of interest stemming from its status as a monetary authority and a member of the troika. in addition, i strongly support calls for transparency in the european stabilisation mechanism (esm) and the request for the european ombudsman to continue investigating 'revolving door' cases (staff movements between roles as legislators and regulators and sectors affected by legislation and regulation) in the commission, such as that of former european commission president mr barroso, who is appointed as adviser and non-executive chairman of goldman sachs international.
in writing. ‒ the i supported the 2015 annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman as it highlights key issues and provides a wealth of information on the initiatives and actions of the european ombudsman, the use of social media to promote the ombudsman's activities and the corresponding actions by the european institutions. the ombudsman's 2015 inquiries covered: requests for information and access to documents, institutional and political issues closely followed by competitions and selection procedures, administration and staff regulations and lastly the award of contracts by tendering procedures or the provision of grants. i welcome the successes of the european ombudsman, including the transparency of tripartite meetings and the publication of documents, the increased transparency of the work of the european council and the council of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'abstention' on the report on the definitive vat system and the fight against vat fraud, as i believe that while it contains positive elements such as effective ways of combating tax fraud and good practices for vat, there are also those that would rather lead to an increase in the eu's influence and a removal of sovereignty from the member states. i do not agree with the call for more harmonisation at eu level of vat rules, nor with the proposal that the council should decide on the measures to harmonise these rules.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a definitive vat system and the fight against vat fraud. a simplified vat system is necessary for the proper functioning of the digital single market. i support the introduction of a single european vat area, which should underpin a deeper and fairer single market and contribute to the promotion of tax fairness, sustainable consumption, employment, growth, investment and competitiveness, while limiting the potential for vat fraud. i also believe that the commission should closely monitor the functioning of national tax authorities and improve coordination between them. i call for all proposals to be examined in order to limit as far as possible the bureaucratic burden of turnover tax on smes. in this respect, the commission should examine international best practices, such as the 'gold card' scheme applicable in singapore and australia, taking into account that the risk of fraud by some suppliers is very low. i call on the commission to continue to monitor the revenues derived by criminal organisations from vat fraud and to present a strategy to counter the business models of criminal organisations for vat fraud, including through joint investigation teams where necessary.
in writing. ‒ the the report states that, at almost €1 billion in 2014, vat is one of the main sources of revenue in the eu and its contribution is growing. vat represents around 7% of the union's gross domestic product and provides part of the eu's own resources. according to the proposed report, cross-border vat fraud results in losses for member states and european taxpayers of almost eur 50 billion per year. vat fraud also leads to a loss of revenue for member states and therefore for the eu, creating a distorted fiscal environment that is particularly harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises. the report notes the need to coordinate member states' efforts to reach agreement on a definitive vat system. the report also welcomes the commission's intention to propose by 2017 a final vat system that is simplified and fair and that limits the possibilities for fraud. the proper functioning of the digital single market is also based on a simplified vat system.
in writing. ‒ we know that the european union is constantly introducing new and in most cases redundant legislation, and i try to bring in the ones we really need. the issue of wildlife trafficking is something i'm passionate about, and i worked on it as a shadow rapporteur in the legal affairs committee, and i think the final outcome of this resolution deserves our support. calls on the eu to review the existing legislative framework with a view to supplementing it with a ban on the supply, placing on the market, transport, purchase and possession of wild fauna and flora specimens that have been illegally acquired or traded in third countries; stresses in this context that this legislation must ensure full transparency with regard to prohibitions on trade in animal species based on the illegal nature of such trade in a third country, so as to provide legal certainty for those involved in such trade; the non-legislative report further stresses the need for more comprehensive and coordinated approaches across all policy areas, including trade, development, foreign affairs and justice, and to push for the timely implementation of all elements of the commission's action plan of 26 february 2016.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking. i believe that the action plan is an important step towards the eu's objectives and policies relating to environmental protection and the regulation of international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora. it will also help to achieve the objectives adopted under cites and the eu's commitments to sustainable development in the 2030 agenda. the eu is a transit zone and a major market for much of the illegal trade and trafficking in wildlife, so immediate legislative action is needed to end poaching and trafficking of protected species. much of the illicit trade is carried out by illegal groups, which finance their illegal activities, threaten the biodiversity of protected species of flora and fauna and damage the eu budget. i believe that trafficking in wildlife should be considered an organised transnational crime and that all acts committed in contravention of the laws of the country of origin, transit and the territory of the eu should be criminalised.
in writing. ‒ i supported the opinion on new opportunities for small transport enterprises, including joint business models. the report stresses that member states need to tackle over-regulation and anti-competitive behaviour, which leads to fragmentation of rules and creates difficulties for small businesses. calls for the harmonisation of rules on access to regulated professions and activities, which will facilitate the development of new operators and services related to digital platforms;
in writing. ‒ i supported the creation of new opportunities for small transport enterprises, as they are involved in the mobility system to a greater or lesser extent and each of these enterprises requires a differentiated approach. smes benefit from a range of aids, operate in a well-defined market segment and are often dependent on large enterprises, while start-ups often create their own markets by exploiting an idea, are more flexible and often have the potential to develop internationally. thanks to a more detailed knowledge of the local market, greater proximity to the customer and/or often a capacity for rapid reaction and innovation, small enterprises improve individual passenger transport in densely populated areas. similarly, in remote areas where the construction of rail infrastructure or the organisation of public transport would be too costly, the passenger car is often the only possible means of transport for certain groups of the population. it is here that the legislator can and must fulfil its mission by creating the most favourable regulatory, social and tax environment possible. in this way, small transport enterprises will be able to turn the many challenges they face today into opportunities.
in writing. ‒ demand for transport in the eu is growing and undoubtedly smes and in particular small transport businesses will play an ever increasing role in meeting this demand. it is important to note that the eu is supporting the development of transport smes through a range of programmes, notably through the executive agency for smes (easme) and programmes such as cosme and the sme instrument within the horizon 2020 framework programme, thus stimulating market access for innovative smes. however, in order to unleash the full potential of small transport business the eu should try to remove the barriers smes face when applying for eu subsidies. the eu should also support innovation in the sector by enhancing a supranational european approach towards collaborative business models and by completing the single european transport area.
in writing. ‒ i supported mr rieke's resolution because i believe that the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the main engine of the european economy, employing two thirds of all jobs, should be our priority. in recent years, small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the service sector, have been the ones creating jobs. supporting the development and operation of small transport enterprises will contribute to the proper functioning of mobility in europe. bulgaria is one of the countries that is starting to develop more and more services provided by the sharing economy, and end users expect to use fast and quality transport services. given that only 1,7% of enterprises in the eu take full advantage of advanced digital technologies, we need to focus our efforts on developing new opportunities in the transport sector in order to improve existing traditional models and conditions of work and employment in the sector. the creation of new mediation platforms should be combined with a strengthening of enforcement, which will create a market oriented towards consumer demand, but also provide the necessary legal framework for fair competition. the eu needs to have more innovative start-ups in the transport sector, but also to encourage more support for them.
in writing. ‒ the the report recalls that smes are the main engine of the european economy and represent 99,8% (figures from 2014) of all non-financial enterprises. they account for two thirds of all jobs. the small and medium-sized enterprises that have created jobs in recent years are mainly in the service sector. small transport enterprises play a crucial role in the proper functioning of mobility in europe, but often face difficulties to enter or maintain their market position. the report notes that efsi was created to contribute to highly innovative market projects and is therefore an important tool to support smes in the transport sector in developing new mobility solutions, and calls on the commission and the member states to accelerate its implementation and to increase the assistance provided to smes and start-ups in the preparation of such projects.
in writing. ‒ i support the european parliament's resolution on the situation in belarus. the country continues to observe undemocratic laws and practices, which makes the entire electoral process opaque and undemocratic. belarus continues to be a centralised and autocratic state ruled by a 'soft dictatorship' where human rights continue to be systematically violated by state authorities, especially against persons expressing dissent or protesting against the country's governance. the ongoing construction of a nuclear power plant in ostrovets, grodno region, financed by russia and using russian technology, which will lead to further dependence of belarus on russia in terms of energy security, is of concern. i do not support the policy of the government of belarus to use special forces to interfere in the internal affairs of civil society organizations.
in writing. ‒ earlier this year, president lukashenko released the last of the country’s political prisoners, prompting the eu to lift sanctions in place since the 2010 crackdown against the opposition. furthermore, in recent parliamentary elections in the country, the belarusian authorities allowed the democratic opposition to register, participate and even to win seats in the parliament. unfortunately, these signs of democratisation have persuaded the eu to maintain the fiction that the belarusian regime is changing. in fact, president lukashenko’s 22 years autocratic rule continues to be repressive. it is not surprising, therefore, that belarus has a crumbling soviet—style economy and a despicable human rights record. belarus continues to be the only country in europe which has the death penalty. moreover, the belarusian authorities continue regularly to harass and arrest human rights activists, journalists, and opposition and civil society leaders. clearly, this is contrary to european values and norms. for that reason, i urge the eu not only to increase its support for the opposition and civil society in belarus but also to seek a deeper human rights dialogue with the belarusian authorities.
mr. chairman, mrs. vice president, let's be honest and open with ourselves and our constituents! alongside the common values we share, alongside the faith that holds us together - what holds this union together even more is the budget and the common currency. this is why this is not just another budget, but the future of europe, written in numbers. and in these turbulent and turbulent times, we have achieved a lot: we have half a billion more for new jobs for young people, we have 200 million more for student mobility, for supporting small and medium-sized businesses and for key infrastructure projects. but along with all the positives, we have to say that we have problems. the vat fraud cannot be of such colossal proportions. and a step towards solving this problem is real own revenues and a single vat system. we also need a single investment platform - why not in the tourism sector. last but not least, i am sure, mrs georgieva, that you will leave a good legacy for the next commissioner. congratulations on your work!
in writing. – the mff does more than providing guidelines for the eu’s spending – it is the tool that defines how we realise our vision and how we put our policy priorities into practice. it is the assurance that not a single euro of taxpayers’ money is wasted. i welcome the flexible nature of the mff, as this would allow us to invest in skills reaction, innovations, the good business ideas and smes. particularly, the increased resources for horizon 2020, erasmus+ and cosme (eur 0.2 billion each), as well as the youth employment initiative (eur 1 billion), is a development in the right direction. by dedicating funds to foster job creation, investment and economic growth, the mff reaffirms the commission’s priorities and makes sure that the eu budget is future-proof and results-oriented. in order to boost these results, i call on the commission to dedicate sufficient effort in order to fulfil the key priorities it has set in the mff revision, namely: easier access to eu funds; facilitate cooperation with key partners; citizens’ involvement.
member of the commission. – madam president, the umbrella agreement on which you are asked to cast your vote tomorrow is of great importance for the protection of all europeans whenever their personal data are transferred to the united states for law enforcement purposes. it is with this in mind that i ask you for your consent to the agreement so as to allow its conclusion under the current us administration. let me briefly recall what the umbrella agreement is about and what type of immediate benefits it will bring to europeans. first – and this is unprecedented, not only in the trans-atlantic context, but also more generally at international level – for the first time we will have a genuine data protection agreement in the field of law enforcement cooperation. by that, i mean not an agreement that authorises transfers, but instead an agreement that focuses exclusively on data protection safeguards and the rights of individuals, an agreement that contains the same type of catalogue of principles, safeguards and rights that we have in our data protection legislation. these include purpose limitation, restrictions on onward transfers, the right to access and rectification, administrative and judicial redress, and independent oversight. in assessing the value of the umbrella agreement, let us also recall the current situation and what the status quo would mean. as we speak, data is being shared between eu member states and us law enforcement authorities. these exchanges are taking place on the basis of legal instruments, in particular bilateral agreements that very often lack basic privacy safeguards or contain only limited protections. as we know, these transfers will continue to take place and are likely to intensify, notably in response to terrorism threats. the umbrella agreement addresses this serious deficit of protection. with its entry into force, all these transfers will benefit from the additional safeguards and rights provided by the umbrella. in other words, this is an agreement that will bring immediate and very substantial improvements to the situation of the eu data subjects. in doing so, the umbrella agreement will also remedy the current imbalance of protections between both sides of the atlantic. today americans already enjoy these protections when their data is transferred to the eu, while this is not the case for europeans when their data is transferred to the united states. this is why you asked us, in your resolution of 12 march 2014, to put rights for eu citizens on an equal footing with rights for us citizens. the consequence of all this is clear. it is first and foremost the protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens which will benefit from the agreement. i see no benefit in delaying its conclusion. this will only be to our detriment. i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, mr albrecht, for his support on this important agreement. the help from the parliament has also been essential to ensure the adoption by the us congress of the us judicial redress act, which extends important rights to our citizens that were previously reserved only for americans. i would like to thank all of you for your continuous support on that. i know that certain aspects of the umbrella agreement have raised questions among some members of this house. the commission has taken these concerns very seriously, and on various occasions provided explanations and clarifications to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. most recently we have transmitted to parliament a statement that contains these clarifications. the commission will issue this statement at the time of the conclusion of the agreement by the eu and it will be published in the official journal. while i understand that some of you still have reservations, i hope that our central message has been heard. this is a big leap in terms of data protection, and a major improvement compared to the status quo. this includes the adoption of the judicial redress act, something which would not have been possible without the pressure stemming from the umbrella agreement negotiations. making the judicial redress act operational still requires that the us attorney general designates the eu as being covered by the act. this is a necessary step for full implementation, and we have agreed with the united states that the official notifications triggering the entry into force will only be exchanged once this designation has been made. so time matters here. we understand that this can still happen in the coming weeks under the current administration.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. madam president, commissioner jurova, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i supported the position of the rapporteur of the committee responsible, ms albrecht. parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of that agreement. it is important and will bring visible results. the aim of the agreement is primarily to establish a broad set of safeguards and guarantees that will be offered for the transfer of personal data for criminal law enforcement purposes between the united states of america, the european union and its member states. as a condition of legal certainty, the protection of personal data is a clear priority and is guaranteed in this agreement. i believe that this agreement ensures a high level of protection of this data, contributes to legal certainty and will further improve law enforcement cooperation with the united states of america. it is important to note that the agreement does not cover the exchange of data between national security services, as these are not within the competence of the union.
madam president, the adoption of the umbrella agreement is a very important step forward in improving security in europe, while at the same time not compromising human rights, and more specifically the protection of the personal data of european citizens. here in this parliament we have repeatedly called for increased cooperation, both between law enforcement agencies in the european union and with our international partners, in order to exchange timely and high-quality information on suspected terrorists, traffickers and other criminals. this is necessary to prevent future terrorist attacks and to make european citizens feel safer in their daily lives. but this cooperation cannot and must not be at the expense of the fundamental rights and freedoms we have won in europe. european citizens have a right to know that their data is not being misused, that the state is not monitoring them, but on the contrary is doing everything possible to protect them and their data. in the specific case of the umbrella agreement with the us, the european union does not unconditionally transfer personal data of europeans. the aim of the agreement is to ensure that the high standards of data protection we have here in europe will also apply to the exchange of data with our us partners. the agreement is by no means a slap in the face of europe to the united states, but on the contrary it provides european citizens with protection from american law enforcement and courts unlike anything that has ever existed. so in the name of international cooperation and protecting the privacy of european citizens, we should all vote in favour of the agreement tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the last time we spoke about the democratic republic of the congo in this house, i remember calling for the rejection of impotence, fatalism and silence in the face of the trajectory that was becoming more and more clear. this trajectory must change. it is time to be decisive and decisive. in the joint resolution which will be adopted, i hope by a large majority, we call for targeted sanctions to be finally imposed on those responsible for the violent repression and political impasse in the drc. these sanctions must also serve as a warning and a reminder to all political actors of their responsibilities, the first of which is to participate in a way out of the crisis and the prevention of violence. the second point i would like to make concerns the political dialogue in particular. we welcome the mediation of the african union and the efforts of cenco to broaden the consensus around a political transition. it is crucial that any agreement on transition includes a reasonable timetable with precise deadlines for the achievement of the various elements of transition. alongside the political process, everything must be done to reduce the potential for violence in the country. this requires that we continue to provide strong support for security sector reform. finally, as we stress in the resolution, we must increase the union's capacity for mediation and work at local level to bring down the pressure and channel frustrations into a real project for the drc.
in writing. – unfortunately, the political situation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) continues to be unstable due to increasing political tensions in the country. less than three weeks before the 19 december deadline marking the end of president joseph kabila’s constitutionally mandated two-term limit, he still has not made any clear commitment as to when, or even if, he will step down. meanwhile congolese authorities have been heavily criticised for human rights violations, a crackdown on political opponents and an onslaught on press freedoms, as illustrated by the murder of a journalist working for the state broadcaster rtnc and the blocking of the signals of radio stations such as radio france internationale, voice of america, the bbc, the belgian french-language station rtbf and the united nations station radio okapi. in this context, i call on the congolese authorities, and particularly president kabila, to protect and respect the rights of all citizens of the drc in strict compliance with the country’s constitutional law and international law, and to stop immediately the ongoing bloody crackdown on political opposition and civil society. furthermore, i call on the eu to take all necessary measures to protect the rights and freedoms of all citizens of the drc.
in writing. ‒ the full entry into force on 1 may 2016 of the provisions of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council of 9 october 2013 establishing the union customs code and of the subsequent delegated acts implementing it have revealed certain drafting deficiencies. this proposal to amend article 136 of the union customs code aims to ensure equal treatment of goods which have temporarily left the customs territory of the union. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 establishing the union customs code, as regards goods temporarily leaving the customs territory of the union by sea or air.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the current proposal to amend article 136 of the union customs code (ucc) in order to ensure effective application of other ucc, notably these on customs supervision. the main reason why we should modify the article is that its current text says that certain provisions do not apply to goods that have temporarily left the union customs territory while moving by direct route between two points of that territory by sea or air without a stop outside the union. in other words, under the current text of article 136 ucc custom authorities have no clear legal basis through which to require presentation of union goods and non-union goods that have temporarily left the union customs territory. in this context, the proposed modification to the scope of article 136 ucc will ensure equal treatment of goods and will provide a legal basis through which customs authorities at the european union’s ports and airports will be able to levy correctly import duty and other charges, to apply correctly non-fiscal measures (e.g. veterinary or phytosanitary controls) as well as to identify risks on goods arriving at the european union’s ports and airports.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this, as it will clarify the legal situation as regards customs supervision of goods where they enter the european union through one seaport or airport but continue their way on the container to the second port in the european union where they are unloaded. according to the current article 136 of ucc, the person bringing the goods to the second sea port or airport does not have the legal obligation to go through certain formalities such as presenting goods to custom authorities, filling in the summary declaration, etc. this situation could jeopardise customs supervision obligations foreseen in article 134 in the ucc. to correct this legal gap the commission proposes to amend article 136 of the ucc by shortening the list of non-applicable provisions and thereby re-establishing the obligation to present the goods which have been brought into the customs union at the second point of entry under certain circumstances.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the proposal concerns the rejection of regulatory technical standards (rts) proposed by the european securities and markets authority (esma) and the commission. in order to give the commission and the abovementioned european body time to amend the regulatory technical standards, a more than reasonable 12-month delay in the submission of the application has been agreed, as the amendments should not be applied without mandatory verification and analysis.
in writing. – the regulation on key information documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investment products (priips) introduces a key information document (kid – a simple document giving key facts to investors in a clear and understandable manner) covering not only collective investment schemes but also other ‘packaged’ investment products offered by banks or insurance companies. in light of this, we should sustain amendments made by regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 on key information documents for priips as regards the date of its application. by doing so we actually will postpone the date of entry into application of the priips regulation, which means that it shall apply from 1 january 2018. thus, the eu and its member states will have more time to prepare for the application of the new rules.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement defines the relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati, which are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states, of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the republic of kiribati when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than the purpose of engaging in a gainful occupation. i supported the abolition of the visa regime under the conditions mentioned above. i believe it can have a positive impact by simplifying travel conditions for entrepreneurs and increasing investment in tourism.
in writing. ‒ the european commission and the european union, respectively, are inconsistent on visa policy. my fellow citizens are victims of this because countries like canada and the united states still discriminate against us with their visa-free policies. i have refrained from giving my support to the eu-kiribati agreement on the short-stay visa abolition because i do not approve of the way the european commission is conducting the eu visa policy and that it is ignoring the decisions of the court of justice of the eu on some issues that oblige it to do so. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the visa waiver is not applicable to the countries of the european union, as the visa waiver is not applicable to the countries of the european union. the european commission has not done so and has not offered visas to the citizens of the united states and canada who continue to discriminate against my fellow citizens.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement because it takes into account the situation of member states which do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the republic of kiribati when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou agreement the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states defines the relations between the european union and the solomon islands. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the solomon islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than the purpose of engaging in a gainful occupation. i supported this proposal with the idea of future better trade relations and development. the visa waiver agreement not only allows citizens to take full advantage of the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it, with the opportunity to travel more economically and practically.
in writing. ‒ the european commission and the european union, respectively, are inconsistent on visa policy. my fellow citizens are victims of this because some countries like canada and the united states still discriminate against us with their visa-free policies. i have refrained from giving my support to the eu-solomon islands agreement on the short-stay visa abolition because i do not approve of the way the european commission is conducting the eu visa policy and that it is ignoring the decisions of the court of justice of the eu on some issues that oblige it to do so. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the visa waiver is not applicable to the countries of the european union, as the visa waiver is not applicable to the countries of the european union. the european commission has not done so and has not offered visas to the citizens of the united states and canada who continue to discriminate against my fellow citizens.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement because it takes into account the situation of member states which do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of solomon islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ the cotonou partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states defines the relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the federated states of micronesia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than the purpose of engaging in a gainful occupation. i believe that the abolition of the visa regime under the above conditions is a good step for the further development of relations between the two countries and the fact that the federated states of micronesia is a democratic state that gives priority to human rights, predisposes to a desire to deepen relations. that's why i supported her proposal.
in writing. ‒ the european commission and the european union, respectively, are inconsistent on visa policy. my fellow citizens are victims of this because some countries like canada and the united states still discriminate against us with their visa-free policies. i have refrained from giving my support to the eu-micronesia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver because i do not approve of the way the european commission is conducting the eu visa policy and that it is ignoring the decisions of the court of justice of the eu on some issues that oblige it to do so. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the visa waiver is not applicable to the countries of the european union, as the visa waiver is not applicable to the countries of the european union. the european commission has not done so and has not offered visas to the citizens of the united states and canada who continue to discriminate against my fellow citizens.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement because it takes into account the situation of member states which do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the federated states of micronesia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal for a visa waiver with tuvalu because i believe that our relations have the potential to deepen and this agreement would be an additional means of strengthening economic and cultural ties and of deepening political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the signed agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of tuvalu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days within any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than the purpose of engaging in a gainful occupation. relations between the european union and tuvalu are governed by the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states of the one part, and the european union and its member states, of the other part, referred to as the cotonou agreement.
in writing. ‒ the european commission and the european union, respectively, are inconsistent on visa policy. my fellow citizens are victims of this because some countries like canada and the united states still discriminate against us with their visa-free policies. i have refrained from giving my support to the eu-tuvalu agreement on the short-stay visa abolition because i do not approve of the way the european commission is conducting the eu visa policy and that it is ignoring the decisions of the court of justice of the eu on some issues that oblige it to do so. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the visa waiver is not applicable to the countries of the european union, as the visa waiver is not applicable to the countries of the european union. the european commission has not done so and has not offered visas to the citizens of the united states and canada who continue to discriminate against my fellow citizens.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement because it takes into account the situation of member states which do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of tuvalu when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ the result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands is seen in this agreement in particular, and i support it. it is important to note that the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and for citizens of the marshall islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a period of up to 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (holders of ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passports) travelling for any purpose other than the purpose of engaging in a gainful occupation. we already have a basis on which our relations operate, and that is the cotonou agreement. the abolition of visas would encourage more investment and would encourage the marshall islands to continue building their democratic system through our support.
in writing. ‒ the european commission and the european union, respectively, are inconsistent on visa policy. my fellow citizens are victims of this because some countries like canada and the united states still discriminate against us with their visa-free policies. i have refrained from giving my support to the eu-marshall islands agreement on the short-stay visa abolition because i do not approve of the way the european commission is conducting the eu's visa policy and that it is ignoring the decisions of the court of justice of the eu on certain issues that oblige it to do so. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the visa waiver is not applicable to the countries of the european union, as the visa waiver is not applicable to the countries of the european union. the european commission has not done so and has not offered visas to the citizens of the united states and canada who continue to discriminate against my fellow citizens.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement because it takes into account the situation of member states which do not apply the schengen acquis in full. the agreement also provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of the republic of the marshall islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ the solidarity fund has become a working fund in a short time, which unfortunately is used in natural disasters to help those affected. unfortunately, however, many of the affected areas were left out of the scope of this fund because the disasters in them did not meet the aid framework. that is why i welcome the change the ep's desire to reduce the threshold from 1.5% to 1%. i am also disappointed that the commission has not wanted to reduce it, but i hope that we will be able to achieve this very soon. i hope we can reduce the response time of the institutions, because 12 weeks to submit the aid documents and then another 6 for approval is still a long period for people in distress. finally, i hope that there is no reason for the money from this fund to be wasted, i.e. i hope that there are no major natural disasters in europe, and in the world in general.
in writing. ‒ the eu solidarity fund is a robust and flexible instrument providing real assistance to european citizens affected by major natural disasters. this is evidenced by the fact that the fund, since its creation in 2002, has mobilised a total of €3.8 billion in relation to over 70 disasters in 24 member states and candidate countries, including my own country, bulgaria. to continue to be a concrete and tangible instrument of eu solidarity towards communities affected by natural disasters, the fund needs to continue to evolve. in 2014, when the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 entered into force, the 'solidarity' fund was substantially renewed. the procedures for applying for financial assistance from the fund have been improved and simplified so that regions affected by natural disasters can receive a response within six weeks of the date of submission of an aid application. this resolution, for its part, again makes another interesting proposal to take the human development index and the regional social progress index into account when determining the financial assistance received by the affected regions. i think that the successes of the solidarity fund, as well as its continued development, should be encouraged, and that is why i support this resolution.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as it formulates some recommendations for a future possible reform, which should take into consideration the possibility of redefining regional natural disasters, allowing for a single application to be submitted jointly by several eligible states at cross-border level, as well as examining the indirect damage when assessing the application. it also focuses on the effects of the 2014 eusf reform on the process of the mobilisation of assistance. the fund is the eu’s way to respond to major and extraordinary natural disasters inside the union and in countries involved in accession negotiations and demonstrates solidarity with the eligible regions or states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mrs albrecht on the conclusion of an agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information in connection with the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, as i believe that this will ensure additional protection of personal data. the aim of the agreement is primarily to establish a broad set of safeguards and guarantees that will apply to the transfer of personal data for criminal law enforcement purposes between the us and the eu and its member states. i believe that it ensures a high level of protection of personal data and contributes to legal certainty. it will also contribute to enhancing law enforcement cooperation with the united states of america. it is important to note that the agreement does not cover the exchange of data between national security services, as these do not fall within the competence of the union.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as the agreement represents a significant advance on the protection of personal data when transferred between the eu and the us for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences, including terrorism. it should be emphasised that it does not restrict or infringe in any way the rights of data subjects as it does not constitute a legal basis for the transfer of data. the envisaged agreement contributes to legal certainty by creating a legal framework for the protection of personal data. it also provides a sound basis for the negotiation of future agreements between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and the united states, on the other, providing for the transfer of personal data in the field of criminal law enforcement. the definition of common standards in this area of cooperation contributes to rebuilding trust in the exchange of data between europe and the us and sends a positive message about the strategic importance of strengthening and further deepening the transatlantic partnership in various areas.
in writing. ‒ i supported this agreement because it will have a significant impact on police and law enforcement cooperation between the european union (eu) and the united states (us). by establishing a common and comprehensive framework of data protection rules and guarantees, this eu-us data-protection umbrella agreement will safeguard citizens’ personal information during law enforcement investigations on both sides. thus, in a long-term perspective, this agreement will contribute significantly to restoring trust in transatlantic data flows as well as increasing anti-terrorism cooperation between the eu and the us. in general, this agreement will protect both eu and us citizens from common security challenges.
in writing. ‒ on 1 december, the european parliament approved the agreement between the united states and the european union on the protection of personal information in connection with the prevention, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. the agreement struck a very good balance between the protection of personal data and the protection of public policy and security in the case of joint eu-us actions. strengthening information exchange mechanisms is an important step towards better cooperation between the us, the eu and member states. the clauses of the agreement ensure that the high level of protection of personal data of european citizens is maintained through accountability mechanisms, a continuous dialogue between the responsible authorities, a proportionate use of the data provided and effective legal remedies. i believe this agreement will be the foundation on which the us and the eu will continue to build their relationship at a time when dialogue and cooperation at the international level are key to the detection and prosecution of crimes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu-ghana interim economic partnership agreement concluded back in 2007 as it will provide safeguards and continue duty-free quotas for access to the eu market for certain goods. an eu-west africa agreement, the economic partnership agreement (epa), is currently being finalised and will replace all existing eu-west african agreements when it enters into force.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ghana-eu interim economic partnership agreement (iepa) because it will give both partners practical tools to strengthen capacity in fiscal reforms, improving business climate, competitiveness, trade facilitation and customs co-operation. in particular, iepa ensures to ghana, a lower middle-income country, a 100% market access offer based on a long-term contractual relationship, which will ensure new investments and job creation. on the other hand, iepa will fully or nearly fully liberalize 80% of european exports into ghana. looking from this perspective, we should consider iepa as a solid legal foundation, which opens new business opportunities for both partners. last but not least, iepa is another step forward for an upcoming regional economic partnership agreement (epa) with 16 west african states.
in writing. – i supported this agreement as it ensures a contractual safety net, warranting a duty-free quota free access to the eu market and asymmetric, gradual opening of ghana’s market to eu goods until the regional agreement comes into a fruition. the iepa will allow ghanaian exporters to preserve the duty-free preferences on the european market as ghana moves up and consolidates its status as a middle-income country. furthermore, if the regional epa comes into place without excessive delays, any discrepancies in the iepa tariff liberalisation schedules and tariff lines would be solved without a need for additional adaptation to the regional processes.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. the 2013 multiannual financial framework (mff) regulation allows for the mobilisation of funds from a contingency margin of up to 0,03% of the eu-28's gross national income. as the contingency margin is a 'last resort' tool to deal with unforeseen circumstances and is only used when all other funding options have been exhausted, i consider the proposal to be a good one. the idea is to mobilise in 2017 the contingency margin for the amount of eur 1,9 billion for expenditure deemed necessary to deal with the migration and refugee crisis, including the new partnership framework announced in june. the commission notes that the capital injections were granted in the form of capital injections. in addition, the overall ceilings of the mff will not be exceeded by using the contingency margin. overall, the measures are reasonable and i stress again that the mechanism is only a last resort.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that the humanitarian and migratory challenges that we face today were not accounted for when the current mff was adopted back in 2013. therefore, even with the systemic mobilisation of the totality of the flexibility instrument under heading 3 (security and citizenship) in the coming years, the financial resources available will not be sufficient to tackle the increased needs. we need a fair distribution of funding according to priorities, in full transparency and accountability. for that reason, i welcome the proposal of the commission in the context of the mff mid-term revision which aims to increase the capability of the budget to react quickly and adequately to unforeseen events. in light of this, i strongly support the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing available in the general budget of the union for the financial year 2017, beyond the ceilings of heading 3 (security and citizenship) by the amount of eur 530 million to finance measures in the field of migration, refugees and security.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by ms fernandez on draft amending budget no 5/2016: implementation of the own resources decision as it results from the completion of the ratification process and entry into force of decision 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes, such as a reduction in the collection costs of traditional own resources, a new reduced rate of own resource charge on the vat basis for some member states and gross reductions in the annual contributions on the gni basis for some member states. the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour in order to approve the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide eur 31 475 125 assistance to germany, following the floods that affected lower bavaria, especially the district of rottal/inn, in may and june 2016. the proposed aid from the eusf of eur 31 475 125 is intended to help restore essential infrastructure, reimburse the cost of emergency measures and cover the costs of some of the clean-up operations. in justification of this decision, it is important to note that more eu solidarity means more eu, therefore we should approve the mobilisation of the eusf for germany.
in writing. ‒ in may and june 2016, southern germany, as well as parts of france and austria, were affected by flooding after heavy rainfall developed over a short period of time. unfortunately, these rains have caused damage to public and private property and have also caused deaths. similar consequences have recently been felt in the balkans, where in less than two years floods have caused many human tragedies in parts of romania, serbia, croatia, greece and in my own country, bulgaria. in all these cases, the solidarity fund was mobilised to provide financial assistance to the affected population in these countries. i believe that, like the citizens of the balkans, the german citizens of the affected cities need the financial support of the fund, which, although it cannot cover the damage of the floods, will help them at least partially. for this reason, i gave my support to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to provide financial assistance to germany.
in writing. – the european union solidarity fund aims to enable the union to respond in rapid, efficient and flexible manner to emergencies and to show solidarity with the population of regions struck by disasters. i voted in favour of this decision, as it will grant financial assistance relating to a disaster in germany – floods affecting lower bavaria, especially the district of rottal-inn – that occurred in may and june 2016. the series of extremely intense, short-lived cases of flooding/flash floods caused destruction of public and private infrastructure, of private homes, and in agriculture.
in writing. - i voted for this report. the european union solidarity fund (esf) was set up in 2002 to provide financial assistance to eligible countries affected by major natural disasters or exceptional regional disasters. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. the proposal is to provide aid to the region that has been severely affected. the commitments cover the consequences of severe flash floods which have led to the destruction of public and private infrastructure, people's homes and agricultural crops. the damage represented 3,03% of the region's gdp, which exceeds the threshold required for a declaration of 'regional disaster'. the devastating impact on the region meets all the eff criteria and therefore the only possible solution is to support the efforts.
in writing. ‒ i supported the mobilisation of the contingency margin in order to provide eur 240.1 million in commitment appropriations over and above the commitment ceiling of heading 3 (security and citizenship) of the multiannual financial framework. the main reason why we should mobilise the contingency margin in 2016 is related to the fact that the eu should address the unforeseen consequences of the migration crisis. for one reason or another, the mobilisation of the contingency margin is the only possible recourse to meet the budgetary needs under commitment appropriations. in this context, it is important to note that the availability of margins in other headings allows this mobilisation to be completely offset in 2016.
in writing. ‒ in 2016, the eu budget was extremely burdened as a result of the migration, refugee and security crisis. as a result of these unforeseen circumstances, an amount of eur 240,1 million is to be mobilised to provide commitment appropriations under heading 3 'security and citizenship' of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2016. the contingency margin is an instrument under the multiannual financial framework that allows the eu to mobilise additional funds in the event of unforeseen circumstances. it was established by article 13 of council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 and may raise an amount corresponding to 0,03% of the union's gross national income, which in this case may cover the union's outstanding commitments. i supported the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2016 because i believe that the additional costs generated by the migration, refugee and security crisis were and are necessary for the eu to cope with the difficult situation it is in.
in writing. unfortunately, natural disasters are one of the things we will never learn to prevent or predict. for this reason, we must learn to overcome them as quickly and as painlessly as possible. this €50 million advance will help us to speed up our action to rebuild the affected areas.
in writing. ‒ i supported the current proposal for adding eur 50 million to the annual eu budget for 2017 in commitment and payment appropriations for the payment of advances from the european union solidarity fund (eusf). the eusf was set up to enable the union to respond to emergency situations caused by major natural disasters and to express european solidarity to disaster-stricken regions within europe. in this context, the amount of eur 50 million will definitely enhance the eusf’s effectiveness and response capacity by speeding up the disbursement of aid to affected regions through the payment of an advance before the final award decision has been taken. in general, however, enhanced effectiveness and response capacity of the eusf means more solidarity, and more solidarity means more eu. therefore, we should support it.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the vote will result in a net increase of eur 4.07 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 2 450 000 000 in payment appropriations over the commission's proposal. this represents almost eur 160 700 000 000 for commitments and eur 136 700 000 000 for payments. with a negotiated amount of eur 157 860 000 000 for commitments (an increase of 1,7% compared to 2016) and eur 134,5 billion for payments (a decrease of 1,6%), the council agreed to contribute an additional eur 200 million to horizon 2020, cosme, the connecting europe facility and erasmus+. another eur 500 million is earmarked for the youth employment initiative. i decided not to support the proposal because there were no reserves available under a number of statutes, no reallocation from the wasteful budget lines to the priority areas, and because this budget could widen the gap between commitments and payments. in addition, and very importantly, the report does not provide for the financing of counter-terrorism measures, which in the light of the current political situation should be our concern and priority.
in writing. ‒ today in the plenary, we approved the budget of the european union for the coming year by a majority of 438 votes in favour. the vote on the annual budget of the european union is one of the most important votes in the european parliament. parliament shares budgetary powers on an equal footing with the council. this means that meps can amend the commission's draft and even have the final say on the procedure. the budget of the european union for 2017 amounts to eur 157,86 billion. behind the concrete figures are clear political priorities: measures to support young people, create more jobs and tackle the migration crisis. the draft budget was adjusted by €500 million more to help young people find work. i am pleased that we have also jointly secured additional funding for the 'horizon 2020' and 'erasmus+' programmes.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this decision as i believe it provides better support for unemployed youth. it provides additional funds to boost key initiatives supporting smes, transport infrastructure projects, research and erasmus+ student mobility. youth, investments, smes and entrepreneurship are my core priorities in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ first of all, i would like to express my sincere condolences to the victims of the recent earthquakes in italy. then i want to congratulate all those brave italians who helped to pull the living out of the ruins and to rebuild the cities after these series of terrible earthquakes. and as difficult as it is, after such a tragedy we must learn from these disasters and make sure that we can overcome these disasters faster and together.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the latest earthquakes in italy have led to death of 290 people; 400 people were injured, 150 000 italians have become homeless. furthermore, the latest earthquakes have destroyed towns, seriously damaged local and regional infrastructure, ruined historical and cultural heritage, and done serious harm to economic activities, especially those of smes which are in agricultural, tourist and gastronomic sectors. thereby, i call on the european commission to ensure that all the available instruments within the cohesion and regional funds are effectively used for reconstruction activities in full cooperation with the italian national and regional authorities. in addition to this, i urge the commission to undertake all the necessary measures to allow and provide a rapid financing for italian national and regional authorities from the european union solidarity fund. last but not least, i would like to remind the commission and italian national and regional authorities that sustainable reconstruction efforts need to be properly coordinated in order to fully overcome the economic and social losses from the earthquakes.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament's legal affairs committee recently had to analyse the alleged conflict of interest of the european commissioner for climate and energy, miguel arias cañete. the powers of our commission were not very clear and a conclusion on the subject was almost impossible to make. many members of the house, including myself, felt that we were not a court and could not determine whether the commissioner was guilty or not. these guidelines, which i have supported in this report, are intended to clarify the competences and powers of the legal affairs committee in assessing possible conflicts of interest of commissioners. i still think we have not reached a final text that clarifies everything, but i supported the report because i think it is a good step and it gives a little more clarity and leads to a more transparent procedure.
in writing. ‒ it is more than clear that the european commission should revise its code of conduct for commissioners, to ensure that their declarations of interests give a complete picture of the financial situation and activities of a commissioner and his or her family. in fact, i fully support the proposition that the absence of any conflict of interest must be an essential precondition to be met before the commissioner’s hearings, and that the financial interest declaration forms must therefore be completed and made available before a commissioner is heard by the relevant european parliament committee, and that they should be reviewed at least once a year and each time there is a change to the information concerned. thus, in this manner, we will ensure the degree of transparency which is needed for the proper functioning of the commissioner’s appointment procedure and parliament’s accurate assessment on it.
in writing. ‒ this report largely seeks to increase the scope of responsibility for the conduct of offshore oil and gas operations. it calls for an eu liability framework in this area, with a request to harmonise minimum liability for civil damages, and recommends a common eu-level mechanism for dealing with incidents (i.e. another agency). the report also calls on the commission to consider the creation of a legislative mechanism for compensation and proposes that the scope be extended to include secondary damage. calls on the commission to include major oil accidents in the environmental crime directive (osd); it also proposes the creation of a fund based on fees paid by the offshore industry, with a request for a possible assessment by the commission. i do not support many of these proposals and i believe, above all, that the legislation currently in place is quite sufficient in this area and that what is required in this report does not meet the real needs. in such cases, european legislation should not be used.
in writing. ‒ in fact, over 90% of oil and 60% of gas produced in europe (eu and norway/iceland) comes from offshore operations. offshore operations (exploration and exploitation) are ongoing or planned to take place in the territorial waters of 18 member states. in view of the liability systems available in member states, it appears there is a crucial issue as to whether the majority of civil claims from accidents resulting in widespread pollution damage will be met by the current legislative or non-legislative and ad hoc or judicial regimes in place in these states. in this context, i fully support the rapporteur’s opinion that the commission should work closely with the member states and ensure that the compensation and financial security systems for offshore oil and gas operations in the eu are available. thus, in this manner, the eu will assure its citizens that there is an effective compensation regime for offshore oil and gas operations accidents and that operators or other liable parties would have adequate financial assets to meet compensation claims.
in writing. – the offshore safety directive was adopted with the aim of establishing minimum requirements for preventing major accidents in offshore oil and gas operations in the eu and to limit the consequences of such accidents. i voted in favour as the report calls on the commission to consider the establishment of a legislative compensation mechanism for offshore accidents at least for sectors that may be severely affected. such sectors include fisheries and coastal tourism and other sectors of the blue economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo, as what is happening in the country is deeply worrying. most recently, in october, congolese authorities announced that due to inaccuracies in the electoral lists, the presidential election scheduled for december 19, 2016, was postponed to december 2018. the current president, joseph kabila, took office in 2001 after the assassination of his father and was re-elected twice, in 2006 and 2011. after the president's attempt to change the constitution so he could run for a third term, he was thwarted by parliament and the country began to riot. it is believed that the decision to postpone the elections was made by president kabila, who still wants to change the constitution and run for a third term.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the resolution on access to energy in developing countries, as it draws attention to the growing energy poverty in these regions and underlines the eu's leading role in tackling this problem. it underlines the great potential of renewable energy in africa in terms of wind and solar power generation to provide access to energy for all, especially in rural areas, and calls on the eu and its member states to provide support and technical assistance in the implementation of the action plan of the african clean energy corridor initiative, which aims to meet half of total electricity consumption from clean, local, cost-effective renewable sources by 2030 to achieve carbon dioxide emissions reductions.
in writing. – access to reliable and safe energy is crucial for the satisfaction of basic human needs and rights, a key driver of development and a must for modernity. unfortunately, nowadays 1.2 billion people lack access to electricity, half of those without access to electricity live in africa; this number is growing, since the population on this continent is increasing at a faster pace than that at which access to energy is being extended. i supported the commission’s ‘energising development’ initiative, which aims to provide access to sustainable energy for an additional 500 million people in developing countries by 2030 through programme elements such as the creation of a technical assistance facility, drawing upon eu experts to develop technical expertise in developing countries, and to promote capacity building and technology transfer. in my opinion, the ‘energising development’ initiative must be fully aligned with the eu development policy and it should urge the eu and its member states to facilitate technology transfer (renewable energy resources) in developing states, in africa particularly.
in writing. – the main objective of this resolution is to take stock of the energy poverty in developing countries by emphasising the large number of people who lack access to electricity. i voted in favour as i support the main objectives of the resolution. i also believe this resolution also pays attention to respect on climate change in achieving global access.
in writing. ‒ the european order for payment procedure falls within the category of measures in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters which have cross-border implications and which are necessary for the functioning of the internal market. the procedure is applicable to civil and commercial matters relating to uncontested claims, the main purpose of which is to simplify and speed up the procedure for the cross-border recognition and enforcement of creditors' rights in the eu. the report stresses that no change to the existing legislative framework is necessary. given the different types and lengths of procedures in the member states, i believe that the european order for payment will be much quicker and cheaper and will make it easier for europeans. it is for these reasons that i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the european order for payment procedure is a procedure applicable in civil and commercial matters relating to uncontested claims whose main objective is to simplify and speed up the procedure for the cross-border recognition and enforcement of creditors’ rights in the eu. in this regard, there are several elements that should be taken into account in order for the european order for payment procedure to be more effective. first and foremost, member states should accept applications in languages other than their own where possible. in most member states, however, applications in foreign languages are not accepted. second, digitalisation of the procedure is necessary, which means that forms should be submitted online. this will reduce the number of errors and omissions on forms and will speed up the whole procedure. last but not least, member states should issue the orders within 30 days, the maximum term according to the regulation, no longer because the procedure becomes very slow and ineffective.
in writing. – regulation (ec) no 1896/2006 creating a european order for payment procedure is intended to simplify, speed up and reduce costs of the litigation in cases involving more than one eu country. i supported this report as it supports the work being done to allow the electronic submission of applications. furthermore, it calls on the commission to adopt updated standard forms and encourages the member states to strive to issue orders within the 30-day period provided by the regulation and to accept applications in certain foreign languages.
in writing. – solidarity and fairness are at the core of european values. europe must deliver to business and to citizens clean energy at a fair price. i welcome the proposed ‘clean energy for all’ package and i believe we must be even more ambitious if we are to be at the forefront of the low-carbon economy. we must also abide by the historic cop21 agreement. i call on the two co-legislators to ensure the swift negotiation and implementation of the proposals; only in this way will we deliver security of the energy supply. by making the energy market more flexible, i believe it will bring about more resilience and adaptability of the energy sector. working together is crucial. we must provide and strengthen the rules to ensure cross-border participation and that no country is left behind. europe must work towards greater fairness of the cost of energy in order to increase consumers’ trust. i look forward to working on this package here in the european parliament.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the commission for presenting a comprehensive legislative package for the european energy union in just two years. the current clean energy for all europeans package outlines the future of european energy by 2030 in both an ambitious and achievable way. energy efficiency is put at the forefront as a universal means of reducing energy consumption, energy dependence, energy poverty and harmful greenhouse gas emissions. the proposed 30% energy saving target by 2030 will allow the current pace of energy efficiency improvements to be maintained. the package adopts the principle of technology neutrality in energy support policies, which provides the necessary flexibility for member states to seek the most cost-effective solutions to meet the targets of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring a reliable supply of clean and affordable energy, including from nuclear sources. i welcome the reduction of the super-privileges for renewable energy. after their technological development and entry into the energy sector, it is time to move to market mechanisms of their participation in the energy supply. the prospect of a declining role for fossil fuels in energy is also clear, but setting the unenforceable 550 gco2/kwh emissions target for new coal plants is effectively a cessation of investment in new capacity on existing coal technologies.
in writing. ‒ algeria's relations with the eu are based on an association agreement signed as part of the euro-mediterranean partnership in 2005. they cover politics, economics, trade, technical and financial cooperation and humanitarian aid. economic cooperation under the association agreement is carried out through several mechanisms involving both parties. the eu also funds a number of programmes aimed at supporting algeria's efforts in different areas of the economy. the first assessment of the benefits of the association agreement was carried out in 2009. the second assessment is currently underway. in 2014, an agreement was signed establishing the general principles for algeria's participation in eu programmes. i supported this report because it is technical and i believe that algeria, as a country that has maintained its stability and is performing well, can benefit from eu programmes.
in writing. the gradual opening up of certain eu programmes and agencies to the participation of the european neighbourhood policy partner countries represents a concrete opportunity to bring the two shores of the mediterranean closer together. it is an indirect but effective way of promoting reform, modernisation and transition in the european union's neighbourhood. algeria's participation in union programmes will also promote economic growth and security cooperation. the agreement also opens up the possibility for algerians, especially young people, to participate in programmes such as erasmus+, horizon 2020 and creative europe. beyond the economic and political benefits, it is a step towards a new history of relations between algeria and the european continent, a step that brings people closer by building new ties, which are not those of colonization, nor those of war. algeria has long expressed its strong interest in participating in european union programmes and i am pleased that the european parliament has given its almost unanimous agreement to this memorandum of understanding as a concrete element of the euro-mediterranean partnership.
in writing. ‒ i support the recommendation for the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the people's democratic republic of algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the republic in union programmes. this protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes. it contains standard clauses which are intended to apply to all countries european neighbourhood policy partners with which such protocols are to be concluded. i believe that, as part of the european neighbourhood policy, the gradual opening of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of countries partner countries in the european neighbourhood policy is one of the many measures aimed at providing support for the process of reform, modernisation and transition in the countries neighbouring the european union. i believe that a deeper partnership between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria is needed to improve the situation in terms of stability, democracy, good governance, the fight against corruption, economic development and employment in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour on the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the republic of algeria in union programmes (hereinafter referred to as ‘the protocol’). the signing and provisional application of the protocol will lay down the financial and technical rules enabling algeria to participate in certain union programmes which in a long term perspective will foster bilateral relations between algeria and the eu.
in writing. – i believe that european security is not a zero-sum game and we need stability in our neighbouring countries. for this reason i supported this report, because it will promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union’s neighbourhood. in february 2013, algeria expressed its interest in participating in the broad range of programmes open to partner countries of the european neighbourhood policy. as part of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of enp partner countries represents one of many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union’s neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it is our moral duty to reduce the destructive impact on the marine ecosystem that has been caused by the use of bottom trawls in international waters. as a matter of fact, deep sea stocks are very vulnerable to fishing, stock depletion can occur within a short period of time, and recovery might take very long or even fail. therefore, i urge the eu to impose a ban on fishing below a depth of 800 metres in the north-east atlantic in order to protect vulnerable deep-sea marine ecosystems more effectively. i encourage the eu to insert stronger transparency safeguards, by including obligations to provide public information on eu vessels targeting deep-sea species and to report all catches (fish and vulnerable ecosystems). in general, i believe that the eu should lead global and regional efforts to promote more responsible deep-sea exploitation and to boost protection of deep-sea ecosystems.
in writing. ‒ this report is related to the work of a working group whose task was to amend and amend the ep's rules of procedure. this working group had one member from each political group. i supported the report because i believe that the changes proposed by the working group will contribute to transparency and increased democracy in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of the report on the overall revision of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, as i believe that this will make the institution work better, increase transparency, and protect the ep from political attempts to block its work. the more substantial changes to the rules were driven by the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making adopted in 2016 and by the creation of new bodies in the context of the banking union. the considerations of the 2015 'corbett' report on procedures and practices relating to the hearing of commissioners also played a role in the formulation of the new rules. the amendments to improve the efficiency of work are the order of voting for legislative acts, question time, questions for written answer by the commission, motions for resolutions, roll-call votes and written declarations. meps will now be sanctioned by the president if they use defamatory, racist or xenophobic language or if they take actions that disrupt parliamentary business. the amendments are mainly due to technical, legal and linguistic considerations.
in writing. – given the changing political landscape in the european union and globally, i believe that it is necessary to adapt the rules of procedure of our house accordingly in order to be able to deliver quicker and better. for this reason i voted in favour of streamlining the current thresholds at plenary and committee level, also supporting the clarifications of some aspects of the legislative procedure and the inter-institutional negotiations and other provisions. the european parliament must lead by example.
in writing. ‒ the 2015 annual report on fundamental rights summarises the state of play on issues that have been on the agenda throughout the year. the report covers a wide range of topics such as migration, rights (of children, women, roma, people with disabilities, in relation to citizenship), sexual health, trafficking in human beings, equality, older people, violence against women, lgbti rights, etc. the positive elements are the calls for action on trafficking in human beings (support for victims, people with disabilities, women's rights, condemnation of rape, female genital mutilation and poverty among the elderly). however, the report still has some problematic points such as lgbti rights, calls for inclusion in the istanbul convention, etc. that is why i voted 'abstention'.
in writing. ‒ the charter of fundamental rights of the eu contains fundamental rights and freedoms that are protected in the eu such as dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, rule of law, human rights and minority rights. despite the fact that the charter of fundamental rights has become a fully-fledged component of the eu treaties and the national legislation of the member states, fundamental rights violations do occur in the eu and its member states. unfortunately, nowadays in the eu there is increasing racism, homophobia and xenophobia in the forms of afrophobia, anti-gypsyism, anti-semitism, islamophobia and anti-migrant sentiment. furthermore, there is a growing presence of hate speech on the internet, from within certain institutions, political parties and media. last but not least, in some member states eu citizens have been disfranchised of their citizen/national voting rights in eu and national elections when they exercise their fundamental right to use a minority language in an election campaign. therefore, i take the view that further efforts should be made towards a consistent and uniform implementation of the charter of fundamental rights, including through awareness-raising measures among practitioners and the general public, in order to guarantee that the rule of law and fundamental rights of european citizens are respected and promoted.
in writing. ‒ i supported mr nade's report because the european union is a community founded on values such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law. i believe that member states should take more serious action on the violations of fundamental rights found in reports by the european commission, the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra), the council of europe and non-governmental organisations. i believe that instilling values such as peace, equality, justice and respect for human rights in young people will strengthen their engagement with eu issues, allowing them to express their views more often in a democratic way. fundamental rights are universal, indivisible and always complementary. therefore, not only the european institutions, but also all actors at national level must step up their efforts to protect them. i support the adoption of the necessary measures for the accession of the european union to the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms (echr) in accordance with opinion 2/13 of the court of justice of the eu, as this will enhance the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of eu citizens.
in writing. – the protection of the fundamental rights of people is at the core of european values, together with solidarity and non-discrimination. i voted in favour of this report as i believe we must address the increasing challenges ahead of us with regard to tackling issues such as hate crime, hate speech, freedom and security, violence against women, minorities, or children, as well as protection against violation of digital rights. by granting the integrity of the fundamental rights of all eu citizens i believe we will be a step further and we will ease the discontent about europe.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative industries need support for their development and prosperity. the policies pursued by the european union in this respect must be consistent and that is why i fully supported the initiative for such a report. i am also pleased with the final result, achieved after some compromises on the part of my political group. that's why i supported the report. the cultural and creative industries are based on cultural values, individual creativity, skills and talents, which have the potential to generate wealth and jobs through the creation of value from intellectual property. statistics show that 7.5% of the eu's workforce is provided by these industries, which have shown growth in recent years. the report analyses the impact and potential of the cultural and creative industries and calls for their inclusion in the strategic objectives of the european union as well as in common political priorities.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on eu policy towards the cultural and creative industries, as i believe that a single strategy is needed, covering all the components of the cultural and creative industries and translating into an action programme. the cultural and creative industries are an important sector for the european economy and the eu's internal market, making a major contribution to the creation of new jobs, which are mainly employing young people. it is thanks to it that many small and medium-sized enterprises exist and function. that is why i support the idea of creating a strategic policy and long-term commitments that will help reduce youth unemployment, new investments in science and digitalisation, and increase growth in the eu economy. i support the proposal to allocate more funds and funding through various european programmes to promote the sector.
in writing. ‒ indeed, the cultural and creative industries (ccis) play an important role for the social and economic development of the eu and its member states. ccis on the one hand preserve and promote cultural and linguistic diversity by strengthening european, national, regional and local identities while on the other hand sustaining social cohesion and economic growth by promoting new business models, creativity and innovation, investment, digitalisation and skills building. in this context, i supported the resolution because the eu should develop a comprehensive and above all coherent long-term industrial policy framework for the ccis. moreover, i urge the eu to include the development, effective promotion and protection and adequate funding of ccis in its strategic goals and overall priorities in order to boost their competitiveness and enable them to fulfil their potential in terms of creating quality jobs and growth.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because i share the view that the eu is not making the most of the economic and social potential of the cultural and creative industries (cis). this sector represents a significant part of the european and global economy and is a unique source of jobs and employment, especially in small and remote regions. in addition, it should be noted that cet provides the most jobs for young people and is one of the few sectors that has maintained its resilience in the context of the economic crisis. while it is true that cultural policies are primarily the responsibility of national governments, the eu has a role to play in complementing and supporting member states' actions in the cultural field. unfortunately, we must acknowledge that the care of our cultural heritage is being neglected in both the national and european context. last but not least, it should be noted that the digital age offers us an incredible opportunity to digitize our cultural and historical heritage and preserve it for future generations. for countries like bulgaria, this will give them a reason to feel confident, because we will be able to show the world the bulgarian beat, culture and traditions. for this reason, i believe that securing funding for digitisation and online access to europe's cultural heritage should be a priority.
in writing. – as a member of the committee on internal market and consumer protection i supported this report, as i am confident that it is a step towards harmonisation of the sectors. the report calls on the commission to develop a comprehensive, coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for the creative and cultural sector, and to provide adequate funding for ccis, in order to boost their competitiveness and to enable them to fulfil their potential in terms of creating quality jobs and growth. to achieve this ambitious goal, the report proposes a harmonised definition of ccis on which statistical data should be based.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report for several reasons. calling for the ratification of any international treaty is not the eu's job, and therefore i do not think we should do it here (in relation to the istanbul convention). we know that women's rights and gender equality are well established in the constitutions of the eastern partnership countries. the additional report calls for more traditionally male professions to be opened up to women, which i do not think is the right step in the development of our society and i would not invite the eastern partnership countries to do it, nor would the idea of quotas in political governance, which is supposed to give women more equality - that is not the right approach for me. of course, the report also offers some useful recommendations that i cannot condemn, and finding ways to eliminate gender stereotypes should be our goal.
in writing. the challenges faced by the eastern partnership countries in terms of women's rights are generally common to those faced by the european union. in different proportions, the achievement of equality between men and women must be the subject of determined efforts on both sides, in order to meet the foundations and objectives of the eastern partnership and the european neighbourhood policy of security, peace, stability and prosperity. the report places a strong emphasis on promoting greater participation of women in political life, including with a view to fostering democratic transitions. the report also takes stock of the situation of women's rights in different areas and proposes ways of closer cooperation, for example in the fight against trafficking in human beings, including by involving european agencies such as europol. finally, the report also calls for the establishment of specific objectives within the eastern partnership, in addition to the cross-cutting approach to gender equality, taking into account the principle of differentiation and within a quantified approach based on harmonised data collection and the use of the gender equality index developed by the eige.
in writing. ‒ i support the report on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries. with regard to women's participation in decision-making, it should be noted that there is a significant and tangible lack of women in the power structures in the eastern partnership countries. i believe that there is a need to strengthen the exchange of good practice in relation to the promotion of women's political participation in decentralised institutions and local authorities. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the establishment of a european political party and the organisation of a european political foundation. i welcome the allocation of funds to initiatives related to combating violence against women and girls, which will ensure longer-term access to effective services for victims and survivors. i call for deeper cooperation between the eastern partnership countries, on the one hand, and eu agencies and member states' law enforcement authorities, on the other, to combat trafficking in human beings, which is also among the most lucrative activities of organised crime, and to break up criminal networks.
in writing. ‒ unfortunately, the countries of the eastern partnership (eap states) continue to be countries of origin, and in some cases transit and destination countries, for human trafficking of women and young girls. alas, most of these women have been sexually exploited and have become victims of mass rape, sexual slavery, enforced prostitution and sex tourism. therefore, i voted in favour because the eu should place the fight against human trafficking and sexual exploitation of women at the core of development cooperation with eap states. taking a broader perspective to protect human rights, particularly women’s rights, in eap states, the eu should increase its support for female entrepreneurship, women’s empowerment and education. last but not least, i call on eap states to protect women from human trafficking and sexual exploitation by increasing efforts to investigate and prosecute human/sex traffickers and by actively supporting ngos that provide rehabilitation and social reintegration to victims.
in writing. – stabilisation of its neighbourhood is one of the key objectives of the european union’s foreign policy and of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) in order to ensure the security, peace, stability and prosperity of all. women play a crucial role towards it. i voted in favour of this report as it assesses women’s situation in several areas which are of utmost importance for the epp group: the participation of women in decision-making processes; the economic participation of women; violence against women; women’s role in the peaceful resolution of conflicts. it gives examples of best practices in place in the eap countries and outlines eu support/funding in the context of the european neighbourhood policy. several recommendations are sketched in all these fields to achieve gender equality and enhance women’s rights.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work, which is never an easy exercise. let me point out four points which i think are important for the annual report. firstly, as the report points out, the scale of migration flows has raised important human rights issues. the launch of operation sofia is a means of fighting traffickers and thus protecting human rights. it is therefore crucial today that human rights remain a red line in the dialogue we have with third countries for a common management of migration, particularly in the framework of the valletta action plan. the second point i want to make in the report is the key role of the european union delegations. the role of the latter is emphasised in contributing to the protection of human rights defenders, in providing early warning in the event of a deterioration of the situation and in following up the recommendations of the election observation missions. these expectations imply that sufficient human and financial capacity is allocated, and that delegations receive support from the embassies of the member states. thirdly, the fight against impunity and the role of the international criminal court. yes, the european union must remain firm on the rome statute. nevertheless, i believe that we need a real strategy to promote the accession to the icc of states that have not yet signed or ratified its statute, and thus broaden its regional scope, but we also need to find a way to incorporate the criticisms of the members in a constructive way. finally, i would like to mention the adoption of the 2016-2020 action plan on gender equality and the empowerment of women. today, the message we are sending is very strong. let's make it work.
the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world comprehensively reflects that 2015 was a year of serious challenges for human rights and democracy. unrelenting military conflicts, rising authoritarianism, shrinking civil society, restrictions on freedom of speech and the media, increasing discrimination and hate speech. in the context of this complex international environment, i find the actions taken by the european union to protect human rights and democracy to be successful and adequate. however, i believe that the european union can respond more effectively to the many human rights challenges if it uses the wide range of instruments at its disposal in a targeted and coordinated manner.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the maastricht treaty a few days ago, it is still necessary today to recall that the common foreign and security policy is one of the pillars of what europe is today. but in the face of the rise of populism, let us not tire of saying the truth: no member state can tackle the challenges we face alone. the coherent and effective implementation of the cfsp is an imperative. in this connection, let me emphasize three elements. firstly - and this is one of my deepest convictions - the union must continue to invest even more in mediation, preventive diplomacy and conflict prevention. i am convinced that this is an area where the union has a clear added value. as such, the conflict in the middle east must be the subject of a permanent mobilisation. this is our neighbourhood and we know the effects of the permanent instability in this region. secondly, i emphasise the eucap sahel and eubam libya missions, which must be provided with the human and financial resources needed to ensure the security of europeans and the stability of the union. the sahel is a key region, where the risk of connecting areas of insecurity is high. finally, the union must contribute to strengthening the capacity of regional and subregional organisations, particularly in africa, to address security challenges, but also to encourage our partners to tackle the sources of conflict and instability.
madam president, nowadays the european union faces unprecedented internal and external challenges including conflict zones, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid states, cyber- and energy insecurity. unfortunately all these challenges have direct and serious consequences for the security and wellbeing of eu citizens. for that reason, eu citizens see an effective common foreign and security policy as a priority area on action for the eu where extensive cooperation can bring most valuable contributions. in that regard i call on both eu institutions and member states to work together in a common and truly coordinated effort in order to develop a strong, coherent common foreign and security policy. it is important to note that a strong and coherent cfsp is achievable only if democratic reforms are being implemented and member states start to speak with one voice and act together.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – madam president, commissioner hogan, dear colleagues, the volatile prices in the agricultural market can have a strong negative impact on the food security of consumers, incomes of farmers and the well-being of entire countries. this volatility can be caused by a combination of the economic and natural factors and can be intensified by the broad political and legislative environment and speculation on agricultural products. in order to overcome the negative consequences of the price volatility in this important sector of the economy, some measures could be introduced as follows: firstly, rural development programmes should be used more broadly to contribute towards insurance, mutual funds and income stabilisation schemes for farmers. secondly, improving synergies between the cap and other eu policies, in particular regarding energy, water supply, land use, biodiversity and ecosystems, as well as development of remote and mountainous areas. thirdly, the creation of a system to protect the farmers’ incomes through the use of risk management tools. and last but not least, better monitoring the significant price volatility of agricultural products by improving the european food price monitoring tools and using the information to make an adequate and timely response.
madam president, commissioner, the last council of 2016 is necessarily the council of the year and, possibly, the council of the mid-term, in my opinion, positive. but it is even more so the projections for next year. remarkable work has been done on migration. the foundations for a new holistic approach and partnerships have been laid. so it seems to me that the priority for 2017 must also be the external investment plan for the neighbourhood and africa, to really tackle the roots of irregular and uncontrolled migration flows. two remarks in this context: it is crucial that the economic environment is improved for the plan to work. our partners must carry out the necessary reforms, as tunisia is doing now. secondly, on the new partnership framework - it should be remembered - we can only succeed with those countries that show a willingness to work with us, including with readmission agreements, and if member states actually use the added value of the union. on security, there has been significant progress: the border and coast guard agency and an agreement on the anti-terrorism directive. but in the face of today's threats, the internal and external dimensions are merging. we need a europe of defence. the commission has made proposals, the ball is in the court of the member states to turn wishes repeatedly expressed into deeds. finally, a word about ukraine. you're going to talk about the association agreement, but let's talk about visas. it is high time that the union issued visas to ukrainians today. the criteria are met.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the polish proposal, submitted to the commission in december 2015 and taking effect on 1 january 2016. the proposal clearly aims at ensuring that the scope of the recast regulation is adjusted to the current legal framework of the member states (poland) on insolvency by the time of its application. because the proposed amendments by the council, rapporteur and commission are purely technical and the majority are also identical, they constitute only an official codification of a legislative text. in the interest of efficient action within the framework of the polish restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings, the proposed measures seem justified, necessary and urgently needed. therefore, i fully support the proposal.
in writing. ‒ nowadays companies and individuals in the eu are increasingly establishing business activities in eu countries other than where their core activities are located. if they become insolvent, there may be direct implications on the proper functioning of the internal market. to avoid that the eu commission has a proposal that sets common principles and more targeted rules for insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners. the proposal focuses on the key priorities of making sure that effective frameworks for preventive restructuring, insolvency second chance frameworks, as well as discharge procedure are available. in addition, it introduces measures to increase the efficiency – and in particular reduce the length – of all insolvency procedures. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i welcome the report and the recommendation. i am pleased that uzbekistan has implemented measures to eliminate child labour in cotton harvesting. in the 21st century, the use of child labour is unacceptable and cannot be tolerated in any country in the world. i therefore congratulate the international labour organisation and the government of uzbekistan on these results. of course, there are still a few steps to be taken to eliminate forced labor in cotton harvesting. i am especially concerned that everything that has been achieved so far could be brought to a screeching halt by the death of president islam karimov. that is why we, as the eu, and the rest of the world, must closely monitor the development of political life in this republic.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for a partnership and cooperation agreement between the ec and uzbekistan on bilateral trade in textiles. a key prerequisite for the conclusion of the agreement was the condition set out in an interim report of the european parliament for achieving an improvement in the human rights situation in uzbekistan, in particular with regard to child labour and forced labour in the annual cotton harvest. according to reports by the international labour organization, child labor has been virtually eliminated in the cotton harvest, and government authorities have taken steps to prevent it from occurring.
in writing. - i welcome the report and the recommendation. i am pleased that uzbekistan has implemented measures to eliminate child labour in cotton harvesting. in the 21st century, the use of child labour is unacceptable and cannot be tolerated in any country in the world. i therefore congratulate the international labour organisation and the government of uzbekistan on these results. of course, there are still a few steps to be taken to eliminate forced labor in cotton harvesting. i am especially concerned that everything that has been achieved so far could be brought to a screeching halt by the death of president islam karimov. that is why we, as the eu, and the rest of the world, must closely monitor the development of political life in this republic.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the partnership and cooperation agreement between the ec and uzbekistan on bilateral trade in textiles. a key precondition for the conclusion of the agreement was the condition set out in an interim report of the european parliament on the improvement of the human rights situation in uzbekistan, in particular in relation to child labour and forced labour in the annual cotton harvest. according to reports by the international labour organization, child labor has been virtually eliminated in the cotton harvest, and government authorities have taken steps to prevent it from occurring. i believe that the eu should continue to develop its relations with uzbekistan while demanding and monitoring respect for and improvement of human rights, the rule of law and good and democratic governance.
in writing. ‒ i supported the eu-uzbekistan textiles protocol because such a consent will constitute a positive sign of encouragement to the uzbek government to further pursue its efforts to fully eradicate child labour and all other forms of forced labour, as well as to further strengthen cooperation with the eu. nevertheless, i call on the uzbek authorities to undertake democratic reforms, to create more space for independent civil society, to eradicate child labour and all other forms of forced labour, to meet uzbekistan’s commitments under the international covenant on civil and political rights and the convention against torture. on the other hand, i call on the eu to make full use of the extension of the protocol to urge the uzbek government to respect human rights and rule of law. last but not least, i call on both the eu and uzbek authorities to work together on diversification of uzbek economy, which could gradually alleviate the disastrous environmental situation with regard, in particular, to what is left of the aral sea and its tributaries.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this decision because it acknowledges the efforts by the uzbek government in pursuing the eradication of forced and child labour and recommends giving consent as a positive sign of encouragement for further actions and strengthening of the cooperation with the eu. however, if the uzbek authorities fail to follow through on their commitment to abolish forced labour, parliament reserves the right to ask the commission and the council to activate articles 2 and 95 of the pca. the resolution also takes account of the recent political developments and notes that the sudden death of president islam karimov should not have any impact on the continuity of the ongoing process of improving labour conditions in the cotton fields in uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ i supported the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia and peru trade agreement. in fact, the accession of ecuador to the agreement is crucial for the eu and ecuador, because it will allow both parties to develop even closer bilateral relations and will be an impetus for further economic and political integration in the andean region. it is important to note that the agreement contains a trade and sustainable development charter, which includes ambitious provisions on labour and environmental protection and aims to ensure predictable and stable environmental conditions for investors on both sides. last but not least, the accession of ecuador to the eu-colombia and peru trade agreement will provide an opportunity to enhance the eu’s political dialogue with the country in regards to respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights. in a long-term perspective, the enhanced political dialogue should be used by the eu to urge ecuador to tackle sensitive issues such as freedom of expression, labour rights and protection of indigenous people.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement because it provides for a better and more stringent system of information. this system will be based on reliable statistics on the trends of imports of bananas from the three countries to the eu. in particular, when the volume of these imports reaches 80% of the threshold, the commission must inform the ep and the council, giving them an analysis of the impact of these imports.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report by mrs dorman on the resolution on the eu-norway agreement on mutual access to fishing in skagerrak, as it stresses that norway should comply and not impose duties on eu food products (including fish products) that do not comply with the eea agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the eu-norway agreement on the reciprocal granting of access to fishing in skagerrak, which was de facto concluded between denmark, sweden and norway as early as 1967. with the accession of denmark and sweden to the eu, the european commission becomes responsible for the management of fisheries in these countries, and therefore of this agreement, on behalf of the two member states. this is the main reason why iceland doesn't want to join the eu. this agreement updates the previous one to reflect new trends in international fisheries law, such as the promotion of fisheries conservation and management measures in the area.
in writing. ‒ this report is about an operational and strategic agreement between europol and georgia. it will provide the means for a better exchange of information, including personal data. there are operational needs for europol to deepen operational cooperation with georgia, which is a key partner of the european union within the eastern partnership. this agreement will help to combat crime, which is one of the main tasks in order to fully achieve the objectives of this partnership. i believe that georgia can be a good ally in the fight for greater security and that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the adoption of this report as georgia has the potential to be a key partner of the eu in the fight against organised crime, including trafficking in human beings, terrorism and corruption. in this context, the conclusion of the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol is a decisive step that can make a significant contribution to a more effective fight against international organised crime. enhanced security cooperation between the european union, its member states and georgia is also of strategic importance in relation to the mobility of european and georgian citizens and the finalisation of the visa liberalisation process for georgian citizens. that is why i support the conclusion of the strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol. the proposal concerns the approval of the operational and strategic agreement between europol and georgia providing for the exchange of information. this information may be in the field of specialised knowledge, general situational reports, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime prevention methods and support for specific criminal investigations. i believe that there are clear operational needs for deeper operational cooperation between the two sides. according to europol, georgia is becoming increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, in particular as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and a key partner in the fight against georgian organised crime groups. in this respect, the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia would therefore support and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which are by definition international.
in writing. ‒ i supported the operational cooperation agreement between georgia and europol. there are clear operational needs for europol to deepen its cooperation with georgia. according to europol, georgian organised crime (oc) has been active in the eu, steadily growing in scale over that time. currently, several eu member states are facing serious issues with criminality caused by georgian oc, which by its nature is very international and has interlinked clusters in many countries. in addition to this, georgia continues to be a transit country for foreign terrorist fighters. looking from this perspective, the conclusion of the operational cooperation agreement between georgia and europol would definitely facilitate and reinforce the international fight against terrorism and oc.
in writing. ‒ i supported the conclusion of the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol, as i believe that it will be beneficial for both parties. at a time of constant terrorist attacks, the european union is increasingly vulnerable and a sense of fear and insecurity is being instilled in european citizens. i call on the institutions, and in particular the commission, to exercise strict control over the provisions concerning the exchange of personal data and to inform parliament of the results of this analysis. ensuring transparency in the conclusion of such agreements is key to addressing the concerns of european citizens regarding the safeguards for the protection of personal data. the entry into force of the new regulation (eu) 2016/794 of 1 january 2017 amending the procedure for the conclusion of international agreements also aims to enhance safeguards on protection in the collection and exchange of data. i hope that the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement will help to make the fight against organised crime more effective, reducing the number of threats and acts of violation of citizens' rights.
in writing. – i supported this operational and strategic agreement between europol and georgia because it provides for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information could be in the field of specialist knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime-prevention methods, and support in individual criminal investigations. i believe it is important to maintain a good relationship with eu neighbouring countries and that this agreement will deliver on this objective.
in writing. ‒ globalisation is causing dynamic changes in industry that are causing many sites to close. i am aware that the european union's globalisation adjustment fund aims to reduce the damage caused by these trends, but i believe that this is not the right approach and the money invested would not produce the desired result. that's why i'm voting against the motion. we need to aim at growth and job creation and i support measures that would support those policies, but this is definitely not one of them and spending €1.4 million on 250 redundant workers would not achieve the growth we are aiming for.
in writing. ‒ as you know, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) aims to provide support for workers made redundant and self-employed persons whose activity has ceased as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation or as a result of a continuation of the global financial and economic crisis. in this regard, the main aim of the fund is to help people who lost their jobs to reintegrate into the labour market. the eu should mobilise the fund to support spain’s submitted application egf/2016/004es/ comunidad valenciana automative, following redundancies in the economic sector classified under the nace revision 2 division 29 (manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers). in this particular case, 250 redundant workers eligible for the egf contribution are expected to participate in 12 different measures: 6 are personalised services actions in accordance with article 7 (1)(a) and (c) of the egf regulation and types of measures are allowance and incentives as referred to in article 7 (1)(b) of the egf regulation. personalised services actions represent more than 75% of the overall amount. looking from this perspective, i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ as a result of the decline in domestic demand in the eu, and the weak positioning of the european automotive industry in relation to the growing asian market, a number of companies operating in this sector have been forced to close down their operations and lay off their employees. this is the case of the 250 workers made redundant from the production of car parts and accessories for the spanish company bosal s.a. the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) will allow the eu to help spanish workers to receive training to adapt to the labour market needs in their region. i consider that the circumstances which led to the dismissal of the spanish workers and the measures taken by spain to reintegrate them into the employment sector are eligible for financial assistance under the egf. that is why i supported the granting of eur 856 800 to bosal s.a. employees.
in writing. ‒ in view of the liberalisation of the transport market and the fourth railway package already adopted, either the list of railway undertakings had to be supplemented or this regulation had to be abolished altogether. it would take a long time to fill this list every year and check for new railway companies and those that are dropping off the list. i agree with my colleagues who propose that this regulation should be dropped because member states can continue to use other regulations to compensate railway undertakings.
in writing. ‒ regulation (eec) no 1192/69 allows member states to compensate railway undertakings financially for the payment of obligations not normally borne by other types of transport undertakings. such obligations include, for example, the payment of pensions to workers who retire early in the event of heavy physical work and the payment of overhead travel expenses. however, with the change of european legislation, financial compensation to railway undertakings is now practiced rather rarely and mainly by four member states, not including bulgaria. the commission notes that the commission has not yet adopted a new legislative proposal for the rail sector, which is based on the principle of proportionality. in this context, i consider that the council's proposal to repeal the regulation is justified, especially given the fact that countries wishing to compensate their railway undertakings for the additional obligations will be able to do so provisionally through directive 2012/34/eu.
in writing. – i supported this report, as it will allow member states to adapt their national legislation concerning the compensations of costs relating to certain level crossing facilities. in the framework of the fourth railway package the commission proposes to repeal regulation 1192/69 of the council on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings. we must support the railway sector as it is the environmental friendly means of transportation of passengers and cargo as well as being of strategic importance for the eu’s security.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned that the opening of the rail passenger market will lead to the bankruptcy of 'public' carriers in the smaller eu member states. as we all know, rail transport is a social activity, i.e. it uses the poorer part of our population to get from point a to point b. unfortunately, the solidarity that the union proclaims is not in people's incomes and thus the railway will lose its social character and/or the state will have to take over the greater difference in the cost of transportation of the socially weak and people beyond working age.
in writing. ‒ i supported the interinstitutional agreement reached on the regulation on the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail. the aim of the regulation is to improve the quality of rail services and to increase their operational efficiency. this will improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail transport compared to other modes of transport and will contribute to the further development of the single european railway area.
in writing. ‒ there is no doubt that easier access for all rail operators to domestic rail markets will give rail passengers more choice and better quality services. in fact, the liberalisation of domestic passenger transport services by rail will boost business, investment, innovation in the sector and most importantly will provide new passenger services in eu countries’ domestic markets. therefore, i strongly support easier access to the market for rail operators. nevertheless, i totally disagree with the notion that member states could limit a new operator’s right of access if a new service would compromise the ‘economic equilibrium’ of an existing public services contract. i believe that member states should not intervene or limit competition in a free market because thus they will put railway transport in an unsatisfactory position vis-à-vis other modes of transport.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 contains many positive elements that would improve the quality and efficiency of rail services in central and eastern european countries. however, i did not support its amendment because, in addition to the positive components, it includes a clause which is against the interests of railway workers. the modernisation of rail transport has enormous added value for both citizens and businesses in countries in the bulgaria region, because it will make travel faster, cheaper and more sustainable. however, this modernisation cannot be built on the backs of the employees of enterprises, who must be guaranteed normal working conditions and safety. support for this regulation would be de facto support for a clause allowing for the mass dismissal of workers from railway undertakings in the event of a change of ownership. that is why i did not support the amendment of this regulation.
in writing. – the general objective of the commission proposal for an amendment of regulation (ec) 1370/2007 is to improve the quality of rail passenger services and to enhance their operational efficiency. this should improve the competitiveness and attractiveness of rail vis-à-vis other modes of transport and develop further the single european railway area. i voted in favour of this report because the tabled recommendations will deliver a more resilient and flexible market for domestic passenger transport services by rail.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned that the opening of the rail passenger market will lead to the bankruptcy of 'public' carriers in the smaller eu member states. as we all know, rail transport is a social activity, i.e. it uses the poorer part of our population to get from point a to point b. unfortunately, the solidarity that the union proclaims is not in people's incomes and thus the railway will lose its social character and/or the state will have to take over the greater difference in the cost of transportation of the socially weak and people beyond working age.
in writing. ‒ by establishing a single european railway area, the eu will manage to bring together in a single text the main principles governing railway transport, granting licences to railway undertakings and the levying of charges for the use of infrastructure. this move will raise the level of competition and guarantee financial transparency and fair financing conditions. equal market access and the increasing number of operators should ultimately generate new business activity and additional traffic. increasing competition and specialisation of the market players should also have a positive effect on productivity and efficiency and lead to increases in investment into rail transport infrastructure, making the sector more responsive to customers’ needs and allowing rail operators to compete with other modes of transport. looking from this perspective, i supported the directive.
in writing. ‒ the over the last two decades, rail transport in europe has been experiencing a decline in growth. apart from the increase in car ownership among european citizens and the development of air transport, excessive regulation at national level can be identified as a major reason for the contraction of this sector. it is a significant factor which prevents competition from arising in this sector. this in turn has a negative impact on the quality of rail services, which is mainly suffered by european passengers. unfortunately, bulgaria is a prime example of this trend. in this context, i supported the amendment of directive 2012/34/eu, which contains measures aimed at ensuring equal access to infrastructure and eliminating conflicts of interest in decisions on its use.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, as it put in place important safeguards aimed at ensuring the impartiality and independence of the infrastructure manager, by reinforcing the provisions on: double mandates, essential functions, traffic management and maintenance planning, outsourcing and sharing of the functions of the infrastructure manager and financial transparency. furthermore, special rules governing the access of high-speed passenger services to the union rail infrastructure have been established, with a view to developing the market for high—speed passenger services and promoting its competitiveness for the benefit of passengers. the market development of common information and through-ticketing systems was put forward as a priority in order to facilitate more efficient multimodal and cross-border passenger transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency in ports, as i consider that the proposed amendments are fully in line with my views. the proposed amendments emphasise the need for the independence of the managing body of the port in order to be able to pursue its economic strategy, while respecting certain key principles. in addition, the report underlines that the aim is to avoid the administrative burden associated with the application of this regulation. in summary, this regulation should lead to legal certainty for ports and have a positive impact on the successful functioning of the ten-t network.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european commission's proposal for a framework for market access to port services and financial transparency of ports, as it aims to contribute to the objective of more efficient, interconnected and sustainable operation of trans-european transport networks by creating a framework that improves the performance of ports and helps them to cope with changing transport and logistics requirements. the main priorities are related to the modernisation of port services and operations and the creation of framework conditions to attract investment in ports. there is a desire to counter weak competitive pressures and possible market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services. the existence of a clear framework on state aid rules is also an important condition for fair competition between ports on a level playing field. the regulation will apply to the maritime ports identified in the ten-t guidelines and will avoid the unnecessary burden for well-functioning ports while creating the necessary conditions for other ports to address the structural challenges they face.
in writing. ‒ europe is one of the densest port regions worldwide. at the same time, the port sector is very heterogeneous and characterised by a wide diversity in types and organisation. the eu is highly dependent on its ports for its trade with the rest of the world and for proper functioning of its own internal market. in this context, the commission’s proposal on the trans-european transport network (ten-t) seeks to contribute to the goal of more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of eu ports by creating a framework which improves the performance of ports and helps them to cope with changes in transport and logistics requirements. in general, the commission’s proposal aims to counteract weak competitive pressure and possible market abuses, in order to increase the efficiency of port services and to promote financial transparency. looking from this perspective, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. – the regulation aims to increase transparency in the financial relationship between the state, ports and port service operators. this will contribute to better use of public funds and to the effective and fair application of eu competition rules in ports. as a member—substitute of the econ committee, i supported this agreement because i believe that financial transparency is crucial for building and maintaining trust.
in writing. ‒ i supported mr buzek's report on the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel, which proposes to change the regulatory framework of this fund, which was set up in 1951 with the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community. but in 2002, the treaty expired and the member states decided to transfer the assets of the european coal and steel community to the research fund for coal and steel. the fund is currently managed by the european commission and has some €50 million available for development and research in sectors such as steel and coal mining, environmental improvement and safety at work.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for the adoption of the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel and on the multiannual technical guidelines for this programme. the coal and steel sectors are important in the european integration process and play a key role for the entire union industry. at the same time, working conditions in these sectors are harsh and often lead to harm to the health of workers and citizens. companies should therefore respect all legal requirements on social responsibility, propose solutions and minimise the social impact of the switch-over or closure of installations.
in writing. ‒ the research fund for coal and steel (rfcs) gives funding of over €50 million every year to innovative projects to enhance the safety, efficiency and competitive edge of the eu coal and steel industries. it is important to note that rfcs is complementary to and managed outside the horizon 2020 programme. rfcs brings together industrial partners, smes, leading research centres and universities from across the eu to develop knowledge and foster innovation in the sector with regard to production processes, utilisation and conservation of resources, environmental improvements and safety. however, i do not support the commission’s proposal for a proportionate alignment of rfcs rules with those of horizon 2020 because the beneficiaries are the same in both programmes (rfcs and h2020). therefore there is no real need to amend the legal basis.
in writing. – the purpose of this proposal is to amend the legal basis of the research programme dedicated to the coal and steel sectors after the periodic assessment of its management rules with a view to implementing certain objectives. i voted in favour because it will inter alia align the programme with the commission’s rules on expert groups. i believe it will ensure transparent management of what is a programme funded from the eu general budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported mr buzek's report that the research fund for coal and steel should continue to exist, in addition to the horizon 2020 programme, and be managed independently by the european commission. the steel and coal fund has been in existence since the signing of the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community in 1951, which marked the beginning of the unification of the european continent. the fund currently provides eur 50 million a year in funding for r & d and innovation in both the coal and steel sectors (with a breakdown of 72.8% for steel and 27.2% for coal). the research fund brings together industrial enterprises, smes, leading research centres and universities across the european union, both to develop knowledge and stimulate innovation in the sector and to research production processes, the use and protection of resources and the environment and safety in the workplace in these sectors. i do not think that the time has come yet for us to stop research into steel and coal in an attempt to shut down coal as an energy resource altogether. at least another decade of intensive research is needed to determine whether technologies can be found that can offer the use of coal in a clean way.
in writing. ‒ i voted 'abstention' on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter (2015), as it contains many opinions with which i do not agree, such as the sharp criticism of the eu and the member states for not complying with european migration legislation. we cannot ask member states to apply and comply with legislation imposed by the european institutions that does not work in their favour but instead aims to weaken member states and destroy european traditions and culture.
in writing. – the european union is committed to a common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and all other policies with an external dimension founded on the advancement of democracy, rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i voted in favour of it as it pays particular attention to women, children, people with disabilities, elderly people and eu human rights policy in this regard. the report further underlines the fact that conflicts, wars and failures of governance constitute key causes of migration and displacement. in its holistic approach to finding sustainable, long-term and coherent solutions, based on international human rights standards, it highlights the importance of differentiating between refugees and migrants.
in writing. ‒ for another year, mr elmar brock's report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy (article 36 teu) calls for the abandonment of the 'narrow national point of view' and the pursuit of a common eu foreign policy and the creation of a common european army. the lisbon treaty has already made a major step forward in this respect, and i believe that any further step will be a step towards centralisation in brussels, federalisation of the eu and the abandonment of national sovereignty. the general approach certainly gives the european union greater weight in foreign policy and in achieving its objectives, but the eu's objectives do not always coincide with the interests of individual member states. that is why the european external security and defence policy should not replace or restrict the ability of member states to pursue their own foreign policy in order to achieve their foreign policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of a resolution on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy, as i believe that the european union is facing unprecedented internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state breakdown, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. the community will only be able to respond effectively to these challenges if its structures and its member states work together in a common and effectively coordinated effort. the european union is one of the greatest achievements in european history, aiming to achieve peace, stability and prosperity. it remains the world's most significant economic power, the world's largest donor of humanitarian and development aid, and a leader in global diplomacy on issues such as climate change, international justice, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and human rights. i believe that the eu should strengthen its security and defence capabilities. enhanced and shared civilian and military capacity is a key element for the union to provide a comprehensive response to crises, build the resilience of its partners and protect europe from challenges.
in writing. – i supported this report, which acknowledges the multifaceted challenges the eu is facing in the external domain, from terrorism, cyber security and misinformation to the fight against human trafficking or radicalisation. effectively countering the ever-blurred nexus of external and internal security challenges will be possible with strong commitment, ownership, political will and leadership from the member states. furthermore, the report underlines that eu external action needs to be based on three pillars (the ‘three ds’): diplomacy, development and defence.
madam president, european producers are facing a number of difficulties. while the authorities in the us, brazil and other countries competing in agricultural production adopt and maintain measures to protect their producers through financial means to develop risk-related policy models, europe still fails to cope. the crisis in a number of agricultural sectors across the continent is proof of this. geopolitical decisions, climate change and rising equipment prices are just some of the factors affecting the volatility of the sector in europe. under regulation no 1305/2013, member states were invited to provide for a 'risk management' measure under the second pillar of the cap. the bulgarian government, led by boyko borisov, which almost daily appeals with successes for the implementation and assimilation of the common agricultural policy in bulgaria, has not yet proposed a mechanism for this measure. we must not wait for other forms of embargo or crisis to be proposed as a mechanism to protect the bulgarian farmer. it's time for a qualitative change in this strategically important sector for bulgaria and gerb have proven that they can't do it.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on the commission to come forward with new proposals to reduce the negative effects of price volatility by facilitating the introduction of contractual relations by adapting competition law, by further developing risk management tools, in particular the different types of insurance and mutual funds, and by applying the european observatory on agricultural prices to the different agricultural sectors. as the proposal to continue to pay financial assistance under the operational programme for agriculture after the end of the 2014-2020 period has lapsed, i voted 'abstention'.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it contains concrete ideas for reforming the risk management tools under the second pillar of the current cap in order to limit the impact of price volatility on farmers' incomes. the report proposes, first of all, to strengthen the organisation of the sector and the bargaining process. the call on the commission to develop additional public and private instruments and a mandatory early warning mechanism to respond more effectively to market crises is also important. i also support the proposal to set up european observatories to provide a permanent analysis of prices on agricultural markets to improve transparency and limit abusive practices such as price speculation. i regard the emphasis on the key role of young farmers in the future of european agriculture as a very positive element of the report. the eu's food security and the development of a competitive and sustainable agricultural sector that meets the needs of european citizens should be a strategic objective that cannot be achieved without ensuring stable incomes for farmers.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on cap instruments to reduce price volatility in agricultural markets, as this is one of the main reasons for the disadvantage faced by many farmers in the eu. i think the eu should help to solve this problem. the recommendations provided in the report provide an appropriate set of measures to make this happen. i support the proposal to facilitate the introduction of contractual relations by adapting competition law and developing risk management tools as well as monitoring tools for greater market transparency.
in writing. – agriculture is confronted with higher levels of price volatility than other economic sectors due to a variety of economic, natural and political factors. i voted in favour of this report as it recommends facilitating the introduction of contractual relations by adapting competition law, further developing crisis and risk management tools and monitoring instruments for greater market transparency. a major objective for the future cap must be the tackling of price volatility in order to ensure a fair income for farmers, stabilise agricultural markets and guarantee viable food production.
in writing. ‒ colleagues, the deteriorating climate, droughts, floods, pests and whatnot are having an adverse impact on the level of harvest and the stability of production prices. farmers face increasing production costs and mounting debts, while sustainable agriculture as a source of livelihood can only be guaranteed if purchase prices cover all production costs. the cap is designed to guarantee a decent standard of living for farmers and to provide food security at affordable prices for consumers. therefore, the maintenance of direct payments in the cap, alongside the single area payment scheme, constitutes public service compensation and is vital to guarantee farmers' incomes. risk management tools, insurance, individual protection mechanisms and mutual funds need to be further developed in the cap in order to limit the effects of price volatility. the commission should encourage the exchange of best practices between member states and develop new tools that are acceptable and accessible to farmers, including better information and promotion of farmers' organisations. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection.
the migration crisis facing europe requires solidarity with the countries most affected by the migration flows, such as bulgaria and greece, and new measures to deal with it. the eu-turkey agreement is one such new measure. it has succeeded in reducing the flow of refugees to europe, but to be truly successful, all countries on it must abide by it and cooperate. at the same time, european asylum legislation requires radical change because it does not work in its current form. the gradual resumption of the return of applicants for international protection to greece can be seen as a visible sign of a functioning european asylum system, but in no case should countries like bulgaria and greece become major refugee hubs on the periphery of the european union. this will only be possible by removing the principle that the primary responsibility for migrants lies with the countries of first entry. it is time to put the principle of genuine european solidarity into european law!
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, first of all, thank you and congratulations to the rapporteur for his outstanding work. the european parliament is a co-legislator for this visa policy and we must continue to enforce our prerogatives. i would like to make three comments. first, the review of the suspension mechanism is part of the holistic approach to smart and controlled management of migration and mobility. more security through greater flexibility to trigger the mechanism; it's a first. however, we must remember the fundamental principles which will guide our decisions if the mechanism is to be triggered: a case-by-case examination, based on specific criteria, with the interests of citizens as a guiding principle. secondly, and i must congratulate the rapporteur again, because by introducing the possibility of suspending the exemption for certain categories of persons, we are preserving the potential of visa policy as a tool for foreign policy and political dialogue. finally, i also insist on visa liberalisation with georgia and ukraine. the council had decided to link the review of the mechanism to these two other cases. we have reached an agreement on the mechanism and i will not accept any further unnecessary delays. i am counting on the maltese presidency to start the trilogues on ukraine in january.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the lack of visa reciprocity with the united states of america affects millions of european citizens in bulgaria, romania, croatia, cyprus and poland. as a citizen of the country directly concerned and as a shadow rapporteur for alde on this subject, i am strongly and unreservedly committed to achieving real visa reciprocity for europeans. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has repeatedly stated that the european commission is obliged to take action to address the lack of visa reciprocity by temporarily suspending the visa-free regime for us citizens by means of a delegated act. i understand the diplomatic sensitivity and the need to find the right moment and means to maximise the results in relations with the us, but i believe it is high time that the commission took a firm stand and showed that the different treatment of european citizens is unacceptable. that is the view shared by the majority of my colleagues in the libe committee of the european parliament. i take this opportunity to point out again in this debate that the inaction of the european commission creates a sense of double standards, of a two-speed europe and of different classes of europeans. it certainly undermines the trust of european citizens in the institutions of the countries concerned, but it also determines the way in which europe looks united to the outside world. i therefore call on the commission to fulfil its role as guardian of the treaties in the interests of all european citizens, by clearly demonstrating the administrative will to fulfil its obligations and the political strength to win back the european union's rightful place on the world stage.
mr president, commissioner, i listened very carefully to your statement. i see three important things in it. first, visa reciprocity is a basic principle of the common visa policy of the european union. i am pleased that this issue is as much a priority for my country bulgaria as it is for the european commission. the concrete results of the agreed visa phase-out for bulgarians and romanians are proof that only coordinated action between the commission and the member states - but here it is time to take the european parliament into account - can make progress. that is why i am also drawing attention to the second aspect, so that we can continue to speak with one voice on the international stage. we must take very seriously the fact that the current situation creates a different feeling for a different category of countries and citizens of the european union. this negative trend can have very long-term consequences. finally, i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your efforts so far. pre-emptive action is the clear identification of the negative consequences of certain actions. but that is precisely why i call for a decisive defence with all the instruments of diplomacy, so that, by defending the authority of the european union, we can meet the expectations of all european citizens. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. i want to thank my romanian colleague. i think he was very clear. today we are asking common questions, we are asking for equal treatment for all eu countries and we are asking and listening carefully to the implications of decision-making. i therefore rather join his call - very clearly to uphold our principle that all citizens of the union are citizens and that the european union has the firmness to continue to do so on the international scene, upholding, i repeat, our principles. our legitimacy as a european union in relation to our citizens depends on it.
the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament and the council. the european commission is making it clear that it would rather violate its own laws than impose visas on the united states. this country discriminates against the citizens of bulgaria, romania, poland, cyprus and croatia. the european commission has not shown solidarity with these over 70 million europeans. on the contrary, it has chosen to break the law even after a decision of the court of justice of the european union. it is a shame that the bulgarian government of boyko borisov has remained silent and continues to remain silent on the matter. on the contrary, it is consenting to discrimination against its own citizens. if the bulgarian government does not have the courage to defend the interest of bulgaria, i will seek all legal channels to sue the european commission for its inaction. a month later, the same commission will not hesitate to criticize bulgaria through the proven ineffective mechanism of cooperation and verification of non-compliance with the law. is she doing it herself? the law applies to everyone, not just the strong of the day.
mr president, commissioner, the european union is a strong force when it speaks with one voice. the visa reciprocity mechanism therefore requires a collective and solidarity-based response when discriminatory visa restrictions are applied to european citizens. why, commissioner, do we have this legislation if we don't follow it? i believe it is unacceptable that the european commission continues to delay the application of the delegated act to propose a temporary suspension of the visa-free regime for us citizens. i also believe that this not only hinders direct business contacts and partnerships, cultural and tourist exchanges between us, but also undermines our strategic links and partnerships. for bulgaria, achieving full visa reciprocity is an absolute priority, and i welcome the efforts of the bulgarian government that have been put in place, both with respect to canada and with respect to the united states, at every meeting with representatives of congress, with representatives of the administration. we demand that they do so as soon as possible. unfortunately, we see a reluctance on the part of both the u.s. congress and the current administration to take steps in this direction. therefore, i call on the commission to adopt this delegated act.
in writing. on 1 january 2017, bulgaria will mark the 10th anniversary of its eu membership - a decade in which we have continuously tried to prove ourselves as an equal partner in europe and the world. unfortunately, this struggle continues and the fact that we from bulgaria, along with five other member states, are the only ones who need visas to travel to the us is an example of double standards and unequal treatment of bulgarian citizens. as a bulgarian representative, i find such an attitude unacceptable, especially from the european commission. it is responsible for applying eu law to protect all european citizens and member states. the interests of our international partners must not be allowed to be put ahead of the rights of europeans. i therefore urge the european commission to comply with its legal obligation and to come forward as soon as possible with a delegated act in accordance with regulation (eu) no 1289/2013 so that it can be discussed by the european parliament and the council. the commission also needs to actively negotiate with the new us presidential administration to continue the us visa waiver for citizens of the five member states. we already have such a positive example with canada and i hope that we will soon see a solution to the problem with the united states.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, a few months ago we managed to make progress with the member states on the adoption of the regulation on the abolition of the apostille on the presentation of certain official documents in the european union. but this is a different matter altogether. indeed, different countries do not have the same vision of family law, especially with regard to marriage, adoption, registered partnerships. family law is about relationships, not just facts. their creation and existence is based on legal necessity, specific legal rules and arrangements. this means that a family relationship which exists under the law of one member state may not exist under the law of another. recognition of the content of the civil status documents would lead to a change in the substantive family law of the member states. under the treaties, the eu does not have the power to change the substantive law relating to civil status, particularly as regards registered partnerships or marriages. this falls within the competence of the member states. if the european commission were to include registered partnerships in such a legislative text, it would be contrary to the treaties and would amount to a kind of imposition of legislation that is not desired by many member states. we cannot oblige member states to recognise legal instruments from other member states, such as registered partnerships, which are not known in their own national law.
madam president, the right to petition is a valuable tool that allows every european citizen to actively participate in the democratic life of the eu by drawing the attention of the meps, the institutions and member states to issues that concern them. the right to petition is of great importance since it strengthens the constructive dialogue between citizens and the eu institutions. in this context, i would like to congratulate my colleagues working in the committee on petitions and particularly the chair, cecilia wikström, for their tireless efforts to preserve eu democracy and to engage european citizens, to safeguard fundamental rights and to improve the well-being of our societies. i personally submitted a petition on the total ban on use of languages other than bulgarian in election campaigns, which is already supported by over 20 000 people. i did this as an eu citizen because i would like to live in a truly democratic eu where all member states preserve and protect human rights, including minority rights.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, unfortunately the cases of the larung gar tibetan buddhist academy and professor ilham tohti, who was nominated for the sakharov prize, once again show us that china systematically violates a wide range of fundamental human rights, including freedom of expression, association, religion and minority rights. i therefore call on the chinese authorities to end all cases of human rights violations, and particularly arbitrary arrests, political intimidation and violations of freedom of expression. china is an important partner of the eu but the country has to respect and protect the rights and freedoms of its citizens and stop the persecution and the marginalisation of tibetan and uighur people, and all ethnic minorities. in light of this, i urge the eu to bring the protection of freedom of religion and language, and the cases of larung gar and of ilham tohti, to the top of the agenda of the next eu-china dialogue on human rights.
in writing. unfortunately, the daesh extremist group continues to systematically violate international humanitarian law and commit serious crimes against humanity. daesh is directly responsible for the sexual slavery of women in the territories under its control, the use of innocent people as human shields, the use of chemical weapons against civilians, the mass killings of christians, yazidis and other religious and ethnic minorities. evidence of the atrocities committed by daesh is the continued discovery of mass graves in the territories that the group recently controlled in iraq and syria. in this context, i call on the eu to assist the iraqi authorities to promote the country's membership of the international criminal court. we also need to assist in the analysis and evidence gathering of all the mass graves in iraq. this will allow daesh to be held criminally accountable for its crimes against humanity.
in writing. ‒ the evolution of the political and migration situation, especially in the light of the forthcoming visa liberalisation processes, requires a review of the suspension mechanism with a view to increasing its speed of action and flexibility. there is a clear need for elements to enable the eu to respond to the circumstances. this flexibility should be accompanied by robust human rights safeguards and protection measures, as well as reports and statistics provided by european agencies and competent security forces and bodies. only in this way can the rights of third-country nationals be guaranteed and the principles of the community visa policy be safeguarded. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for temporary suspension of the visa exemption for the nationals of a third country for a short period of time, as a matter of urgency and on the basis of well-defined criteria, to solve possible difficulties faced by one or several member states. in particular, i welcome the proposal that both eu member states and the commission will be able to trigger the visa waiver suspension mechanism in one or more of the following cases: a substantial increase in the number of nationals of the country are refused entry to or stay irregularly in eu territory, a substantial increase in unfounded asylum applications and a decrease in cooperation on readmissions (returns of migrants). i strongly believe that the approval of the suspension mechanism will not have a negative effect on the agreement that paved the way for visa waivers to georgia and ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this dossier. several members have objected to the draft implementing directive. however, stricter controls, as they propose, on citrus imports increase not only the risk of a wto challenge, but will also impose disproportionate and unjustified requirements on exporting countries where there have been no issues to date. the proposed changes also go beyond recommendations by the european food safety authority (efsa). if there are persistent interceptions involving other third countries, these should be addressed through emergency measures, rather than by imposing stronger measures across the board. therefore, i decided not to support this dossier, in its current form.
in writing. - thylamid is a drug used in the late 1950s and early 1960s. it's often used by pregnant women to relieve morning sickness, as well as colds and flu. the consequences of using it are terrible. in pregnant women, it was harmful to the foetus, and in other cases it had other negative side effects. this resolution calls on member states to support victims of the drug. it also condemns the actions of the pharmaceutical company that placed it on the market. that's why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. – i voted for this file. whilst i agree that there are still a number of matters to be discussed, such as the completion of paediatric investigation plans (pips), paediatric oncology and the low uptake of paediatric-use marketing authorisations, change is urgently needed. ultimately, we are discussing the health of society’s most vulnerable and we have a moral and ethical obligation to provide them with the highest-quality legislative protection framework possible and continuous review and scrutiny of the existing framework. therefore, we must set clear rules, guidelines and obligations, working towards a clear goal and based on thorough assessment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2015. as some of you know, in this committee ilhan kucuk, a member of the european parliament from the spd/alde, has filed a petition against the ban on campaigning in a foreign language. at the moment, the work of the committee on petitions is clearly directly dominated by the governing groups of the christian democrats, social democrats and liberals, who only consider petitions that are convenient for the european status quo. this is also evident from the decline in the number of petitions, which is half of that in 2014. my colleague notice marias has made 15 amendments to this report and they have all been rejected by the representatives of the status quo.
in writing. ‒ air transport is one of the safest modes of transport, despite public opinion. nevertheless, there is much to be desired in the field of aviation safety. i welcome the opening of civil aviation safety negotiations with japan and china, as well as the agreement with china, turkey, mexico and the six gulf states, as well as armenia and asean countries. of course, we as representatives of our countries in the eu must be aware at all times of the conduct of these negotiations and the progress made between the negotiating parties. but care must be taken here, because the information obtained can be sensitive and thus sharing information can lead to disclosure of confidential information.
mr president, commissioner, i support the proposal to create a governance system to address the challenges of the european union customs code, which urgently needs to be subjected to such a review. the current lack of clarity within the european union is creating, to put it mildly, difficulties due to inconsistencies and legal loopholes, legal issues, uncertainty and the insurmountable complexity of rules and standards in overall policy, which affect not only the economy but also the citizens of the member states of the european union themselves. take, for example, a family vacation. families travelling in four member states who want to return home with different gifts need to do a thorough research on what and how they can bring across borders, as often the information available is unclear at best. the right balance needs to be struck between citizens and business, avoiding unnecessary red tape, unlawful and disproportionate penalties and sanctions. the in-depth review of the customs code will have enormous economic and social benefits, thus ensuring a better functioning of the single market as a whole one of the pillars of the european union. and finally, let me wish you all a merry christmas, family and personal happiness.
