mr president, i am going to discuss something that we have all observed over the last few months, which is the persistent, intensive defiance by erdoğan and turkey, its refusal to implement its obligations with regard to basic and fundamental human rights and the rule of law, the continued occupation of cyprus and, of course, the ongoing attack against its own people. i am referring to the academics, to the kurds in the kurdish provinces of turkey, and so on. my question is very simple, and refers to the commission itself: do you think that our policy towards erdoğan over the last few months has been effective? is it based on the principles of the european union and morals, or on something else?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. instead of the primary objective being the well-being and enhancement of people's quality of life, the potential of technology will unfortunately be exploited mainly for the increase of corporate profits and competitiveness. the reforms to complete the digital single market will have a particularly negative impact on smes, labour rights and consumers themselves. the objectives of the digital agenda therefore need to be redefined to put society's interests at the centre. our position is clear: the implementation of the digital market should contribute to the creation of new quality jobs and to the strengthening of labour and consumer rights. it is equally important to ensure both free and open access to the internet and the protection of personal data. the commission will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment, and will continue to support the development of the european union's policy on the environment. the amendments tabled by the european united left are moving in this direction.
in writing. we support the digital single market because we believe that the eu must finally be able to face the digital competition of the usa and asia and create growth potential with thousands of jobs and billions of investments. it is a fact that many young people with great talent in this field are leaving europe because in the eu we have 28 different regulations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital services, in particular by ensuring that the union's digital services are not used for commercial purposes. i believe that in this context it is time to focus on the particularly important issue of the internet. small and isolated countries such as cyprus and other island regions pay high prices for low quality and low speed internet services. the european parliament is of the opinion that access to the internet is a human right and that this right should be guaranteed for all european citizens. but while we support this position, what have we done to that end? i repeat my proposal and ask that island regions such as cyprus be made free and open internet access zones.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report on the request for waiver of immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ the appropriate position is to vote in favour because the issues for which the waiver of immunity is requested are not related to parliamentary activity and because the mep himself agrees with the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ we support the report on the request for waiver of immunity of mr czesław adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ the appropriate position is to vote in favour because the issues for which the waiver of immunity is requested are not related to parliamentary activity and because the mep himself agrees with the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ the the european union is a contracting party to the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and the regional fisheries management organisation (rfmos) responsible for the management of tuna and tuna-like species in the atlantic ocean and adjacent seas. iccat has the competence to adopt decisions ('recommendations') for the conservation and management of fishery resources in its area of competence, acts which are binding as regards their transposition into union law. we therefore support the report which stresses that uniform application must aim at ensuring a level playing field for all operators involved in tuna fishing, including in particular non-eu operators, otherwise all the efforts and restrictions imposed on eu fishermen will be ineffective if different rules apply to foreign fleets. eu bodies should not be harmed by imposing stricter measures than agreed because the commission was unable to impose similar measures in the iccat negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to transpose into union law the measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas at its annual meeting between 2012 and 2014. the proposal includes technical measures and measures for the transport and caging of live tuna catches. we believe that the appropriate attitude is to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposal aims to transpose the measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna recovery plan for the eastern atlantic and mediterranean into the european acquis, which was adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meeting between 2012 and 2014. we voted against the proposal because it includes technical measures such as those concerning the use of stereoscopic cameras to calculate tuna quantities and measures for the transport of live tuna catches, measures which favour the development of the blue economy and, above all, because it supports small-scale fishermen and mediterranean businesses which depend on tuna fishing.
in writing. ‒ the articles 101 to 109 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) contain binding rules on competition in the common internal market, which is based on an open economy with free competition. we support the report and stress that competition policy can contribute to the objectives of the employment and growth agenda, including in areas such as the digital internal market, energy policy, financial services, industrial policy and the fight against tax evasion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is contrary to the basic principle of the free exercise of economic policy.
in writing. ‒ the the report promotes the common tax base and continues to seek to deregulate the labour market within the framework of eu competition policies. the report includes some positive amendments on social dumping and the pharmaceutical industry, but despite these we believe that the most appropriate attitude is to vote against.
in writing. ‒ the in its 2014 annual report on eu competition policy, the commission states that more and closer cooperation with the european parliament is needed to ensure that the lisbon treaty is also properly applied in the field of competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is well known that the eu is based on an open economy and free competition. abusive agreements by large companies should therefore be prohibited in order to avoid the accumulation of power and the circumvention of legislative provisions which create unfair competition and adversely affect both the national and the community internal market. i think that the paragraph on unfair and illegal clauses and practices used by the banking sector in consumer contracts is also an important reference for cyprus. the commission is invited to examine the matter in detail. however, i disagree with references to a common consolidated corporate tax base which inevitably aim at converging the corporate tax rate of the member states and undermine competitive advantage, particularly in small island and remote member states. i therefore voted against the amendments.
in writing. ‒ the the annual competition report takes stock of the economic situation in the eu each year and focuses on how to make it more competitive. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on it. the neoliberal forces conceive competitiveness as price reduction through downward pressure on wages and reduction of social security taxes, and by extension social insurance and social benefits. although the text of the report incorporates some of the gue/ngl amendments on social dumping and the pharmaceutical industry, we chose to vote against the text because it promotes the common tax base (something we disagree with as cypriots) and because it continues to promote the deregulation of the labour market due to eu competition policies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report based on the joint agreement of the ministers of education, according to which concerted efforts are needed to prevent and address marginalisation, intolerance, racism and radicalisation, and to maintain a framework of equal opportunities for all. the report identifies opportunities as well as challenges and makes concrete recommendations for action at all levels of governance as well as at eu level, including through the increased use of culture in the eu's external actions and development agenda, as it recognises the unique role that culture can play in peace processes, conflict resolution and crisis prevention.
in writing. ‒ the in the light of the terrorist attacks in france and denmark in early 2015, the report aims to tackle intolerance, racism, radicalisation and marginalisation by promoting intercultural dialogue in the field of education in eu values. we supported the report because it takes into account the great importance of social justice and equality in building a common approach to eu intercultural dialogue, because it seeks to enhance cultural diversity in all youth programmes as well as in the fields of culture and media, because it promotes access to multicultural and multilingual skills for teachers and, finally, because it encourages the eu institutions to broaden their analysis to all forms of radicalisation and political violence in order to tackle all forms of extremism and discrimination.
in writing. ‒ the today we live in a multicultural society, in a time of coexistence under the same roof of different cultures and mindsets. the eu itself is a prime example. despite their different origins, eu citizens are described as european citizens. this approach is an important weapon in the fight against discrimination, racism and intolerance, and it also fosters teamwork and tolerance of 'different'. the eu's founding values, such as democracy, equality and respect for human rights, which are enshrined in the eu charter of fundamental rights, underline the need for intercultural dialogue and acceptance of cultural diversity and pluralism. this can be achieved through the education and training of young people. education systems should promote healthy and democratic dialogue and public participation with a view to developing culture as an important peaceful means of addressing humanitarian crises. they must also promote the strengthening of european identity while preserving national and other distinctive features. i therefore support this resolution and would like to stress that the eu itself must contribute to this effort through specific development and other programmes.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report because it encourages the exchange of good practice to promote intercultural dialogue and cooperation between schools and universities in different member states. at the same time, inter-religious dialogue is promoted, which promotes understanding, mutual respect and peace, especially at a time of global challenges such as the refugee issue or the rise of nationalism in european societies, challenges that are of course a byproduct of the capitalist crisis and economic and social inequalities.
in writing. ‒ we support the own-initiative report because it is a first step in taking stock of the legislative work in the financial services sector in the eu and because it helps to address the shortcomings that have been observed in the legislation on financial services. the report also takes into account concerns that the impact of individual legislative measures and their interaction has not been adequately analysed and that the cumulative impact of the legislation as a whole has not been fully assessed so far. a thorough impact assessment of the financial services framework is necessary and should be repeated regularly.
in writing. ‒ the the report clearly advocates a capital markets union, arguing that the eu has an obligation to help businesses (especially small and medium-sized enterprises) to have easy access to stock exchanges throughout the union. as regards the future, it promotes direct controls from brussels over the authorities of the member states, something we have always disagreed with because it actually completely destroys the sovereignty of the member states and concentrates all powers in brussels. in view of our disagreement with both the cmu and the accumulation of political decision-making and control privileges in brussels, we consider the vote to be the appropriate one.
in writing. ‒ the the report clearly advocates capital markets union because it considers that the eu has an obligation to help businesses (especially small and medium-sized enterprises) to have easy access to stock exchanges throughout the union. this will of course lead with mathematical precision to even greater capital accumulation by large european groups, but also to the strengthening of monopoly capital at european level with a view to its 'competitiveness' at world level. the report merely praises the steps taken so far towards completing the capital markets union and calls for the framework to be brought into line with global data, while at the same time promoting a corresponding deregulation of companies' access to the stock exchange so that they can enter stock exchanges in other countries. it also advocates direct controls from brussels on the authorities of the member states in the future, something we have always disagreed with because it actually completely dissolves the sovereignty of the member states and concentrates all powers in brussels. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in writing. ‒ differences between men and women remain visible in careers in the business world. we support the report because women's entrepreneurship deserves special attention, since equal economic independence is not yet a given within the european union.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is true that there are many obstacles for women entrepreneurs, but our main priority, from a left feminist point of view and with the aim of gender equality, is different. the report makes no mention of the important role of the public sector or the negative effects of recent austerity policies. we are afraid that this report may be used to justify measures to promote female entrepreneurship as the only solution to the problem of improving the living conditions of women and we are also afraid that it will simply create more space for the private financial sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. ‒ the one of the eu's objectives is to develop the entrepreneurship of european citizens, as the figures show that europe has a lower rate compared to countries such as the usa. for example, as the explanatory report to the resolution states, the entrepreneurship rate in europe was 12% in 2009 and 27% in the us. it is expected that the promotion of entrepreneurship will be able to help the economic growth and prosperity of the member states by creating new jobs and by increasing initiatives towards the exploitation of the skills of european citizens. the vote on this resolution is expected to give particular prominence to the development of women's entrepreneurship, which is important considering that only 31% of the self-employed population are women. it is imperative to combat the barriers to female entrepreneurship with the ultimate aim of equal economic independence for both sexes. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on gender equality and the implementation of the gender equality strategy, in particular through the implementation of the gender equality strategy.
in writing. ‒ the we abstained on the report on women's entrepreneurship in europe because we considered it to be incomplete and contained some problematic references. as a group, we are certainly in favour of the empowerment of women and gender equality in all areas of socioeconomic life. but for us, equality between men and women is not achieved either through policies to support private capital or by promoting female entrepreneurship. gender equality can only be achieved by effectively combating stereotypes, violence and inequalities in workplaces and employment opportunities, as the majority of people filling part-time and flexible jobs are women. the creation of conditions for equal participation in decision-making centres and the creation of modern social structures with high-quality social services are also necessary. the report also makes no mention of the harmful effects of austerity policies from the point of view of equal treatment between men and women.
in writing. ‒ we support the report because we believe that youth unemployment, at such alarming levels, is one of the most intractable problems in the eu today, with some five million unemployed and, at the same time, two million job vacancies. this situation poses a serious threat to the social cohesion and economic development of the eu. the report stresses that a key priority of the commission is to 'give a new impetus to employment, growth and investment' and recalls that in its 2015 work programme, the commission committed to take initiatives to promote integration and employability in the labour market, through measures to support member states in their efforts to reintegrate young people into working life. we must also reiterate that parliament has, at regular intervals, proposed different solutions, because it believes that employment, education and training of young people must be one of the main political priorities for the eu.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with a very important issue, namely youth unemployment. unfortunately, it contains elements such as the interconnection of the business world with education systems, the mobility of young people for internships and jobs, or even voluntary unpaid work, which do not allow us to vote in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the young people today are a vulnerable group of citizens who have been greatly affected by the economic crisis affecting the eu in recent years. the figures speak for themselves when we consider that 4.5 million young people aged 15 to 24 are currently unemployed throughout europe. the problem is particularly acute in greece and cyprus. unemployment rates are particularly high, with the result that an increasing number of young people are moving abroad in search of work. both the root cause of unemployment and an important means of combating it can be found in higher education. there is a lack of skills needed in the jobs available, because young people choose to study well-established occupations that do not meet the needs of society today. the need to equip young people with the appropriate skills required by today's labour market, while taking into account future needs, is therefore urgent. the development of skills such as adaptability and communication, which are essential in any profession, should be a primary concern of education systems. i therefore wish to vote in favour of this resolution in order to be part of the effort to eliminate youth unemployment in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on combating unemployment, which in recent years has been a major challenge for the european union, a challenge linked to its social cohesion and economic development. it is worth noting that this resolution, which is accompanied by an opinion of the committee on culture and education of the european parliament, highlights the problem of young people's inability to enter the labour market because of the weakness of the member states' training programmes. i can only welcome the now declared political direction of the eu towards a comprehensive training of young people with continuous and lifelong learning programmes to replace a sterile education policy which ignores the needs of the labour market and cannot adapt the education systems of the member states to reality.
in writing. ‒ the the report also calls for the development of a european strategy for youth unemployment, which would include the development of a european strategy for youth employment, and the development of a european strategy for youth employment. there is obviously no reference to a public investment policy for industrialization or to a long-term state job creation policy which will train young people to get jobs there and guarantee the creation of parallel industries to absorb the young unemployed. on the contrary, it leaves the problem of youth unemployment entirely in the hands of the free market, even going so far as to accept as legitimate unpaid internships as a means of gaining experience to strengthen the cvs of young people. although the gue/ngl tabled amendments to improve the report, elements such as the complete dependence of the fight against unemployment on the already failed youth guarantee programme and the utopian juncker plan for investment do not allow us to vote in favour of the report because we see nothing promising in it beyond the trite, failed policies already in place.
in writing. ‒ the i vote in favour of the report in which the european parliament, in agreement with the commission, points out that the governance and timely completion of the digital single market is a shared responsibility of the european parliament, the council and the commission, while urging the commission to work with the social partners and to seek their full participation in the decision-making process. i believe that the increased use of digital technologies can improve citizens' access to information and culture, increase job opportunities and provide them with more product choices. it also has the potential to modernise and improve governance and administration in the eu and its member states. promoting a vibrant economy is essential to boost innovation and to enable innovative enterprises to develop large-scale activities. the digital single market strategy is structured around three pillars: (1) access: better access for consumers and businesses to digital products and services across europe, (2) environment: creating appropriate conditions and a level playing field for the development of digital networks and innovative services, (3) economy and society: maximising the growth potential of the digital economy.
in writing. ‒ the this is an own-initiative report on the digital single market, which contains positive references such as the need to protect smes and labour rights, the need to safeguard personal data, to strengthen safety and health measures for workers, and to preserve the character of the internet as an open, neutral, secure and inclusive platform in the interest of citizens. at the same time, however, several negative references are identified, such as proposals to further harmonise legislation to the benefit of large companies, the promotion of the digital market as a tool to serve eu foreign policy objectives, and the promotion of european satellite navigation systems. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive on the free movement of goods. for these reasons we consider abstinence to be appropriate.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report which provides for a strategy for the creation of a free and secure digital single market. according to a commission study, the digital single market could contribute around eur 520 billion to the eu-28's gdp. however, european citizens face obstacles when using online services and tools. only 15% of citizens buy online from another eu country and only 7% of smes sell online from another eu country. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the adoption of the report is aimed at removing the obstacles, always giving priority to consumer protection and the strengthening of the european entrepreneurial spirit. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's policy on the digital single market. i also stress the importance of high-speed internet access for all european citizens without discrimination.
in writing. ‒ the we abstained on this report because it advocates the creation of a european digital single market in which new technologies will be used to further develop competitiveness and to serve market needs. the aim of the above is nothing other than to serve the interests of big business and multinationals. we are opposed to such a policy, since we believe that technological development and the digital market should be used to improve people's quality of life. the report also mentions the need for a common eu-wide consolidated corporate tax base and a single vat system, which is particularly negative for cyprus. it should be noted, however, that the report also makes some positive references to the need to protect smes and labour rights, to safeguard personal data, to strengthen safety and health measures for workers, and to maintain the internet as an open, neutral, secure and inclusive platform in the interest of citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i really do not know if there is anyone in this room who can say anything substantive, anything actionable about syria. if there is one among us, perhaps he should be sought among a handful of people in this room who, when everyone was talking about the arab spring, we were shouting as loud as we could that, instead, a heavy, freezing arab winter was coming. some people looked at us with a certain amount of trepidation. so today, with the millions of refugees, with the hundreds of thousands of dead, with the drowning in the aegean, if there is still a solution, let these leaders of europe and the world seek it, bringing the conflicting sides in syria, pro-government and opposition, to the same table. the dangers are growing with the tension between saudi arabia and iran, but also with the full deployment of turkey's war machines against the kurds inside their own country. but to be fair to everyone, i would like to make a plea to you, mrs mogherini, to call the former president of the united states, mr bush, and tell him the facts of his policy in the region. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. tell him "five million refugees, three hundred thousand dead and thousands drowned in the mediterranean", just so he knows we know.
in writing. the situation in syria is out of control. the new horrific news of the execution of 400 civilians by the islamic state in deir ezzor, the over 220,000 war dead since 2011 and the 4 million refugees created since then is a heavy price being paid by the syrian people. the european union is playing a hypocritical role by supporting the united states in fomenting war and turning its back on refugees seeking asylum on its territory. so far, more than 310,000 syrians have sought asylum in the european union, and governments in some member states are worried about whether these people are christians or stripping them of the few valuables they managed to bring with them to supposedly subsidize their housing. enough of the hypocrisy. the european union must immediately stop becoming a thorn in the side of us foreign policy and must give practical support to peace in the region. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the dutch presidency's programme unfortunately prescribes the continuation of the same policies which have led the peoples of europe into a deep crisis. the strengthening of repressive measures, border controls, fences, i.e. the creation of a 'european fortress' against refugees, as well as the continuation of the same neoliberal policies of harsh austerity will further exacerbate the humanitarian crisis. we therefore call on the dutch presidency, mr prime minister, to promote a humanitarian approach to refugee management, to promote measures for social development, to combat unemployment and to tackle inequalities in europe. as regards turkey, we insist that the hypocrisy of the european union, which considers turkey a safe haven and insists on supporting it economically, must be stopped, while turkey takes no action to support refugees and continues to violate the human rights of its people on a daily basis. as regards the energy union, we expect some of the positions expressed in the european parliament's report to be implemented, in particular the promotion of measures to combat energy poverty and the exploitation of the gas resources of the eastern mediterranean to strengthen the union's energy security. (the president accepted the question with a blue card) (rule 162 (8)) )
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the crisis is a problem for the whole union and countries like greece must be supported to be able to deal with the serious problems created by the refugee crisis. as regards turkey, i think that the european union has the mechanisms to impose its policies on turkey, so that it respects human rights and civil liberties first and foremost, but also manages the flows of refugees arriving in the country on the basis of a humanitarian approach.
the commission the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on asylum. we are not surprised that turkey has once again failed to comply with the agreements. the european union commissioner, mr hahn, has also rightly pointed out that turkey is once again not respecting and not recognising what has been agreed. but tell me when turkey has kept its word. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the cypriot people are respected and that the rights of the cypriot people are respected. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. when he has an occupying army on european soil? the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether it will take a decision on the matter. i believe that the appropriate description of the issue of refugees in turkey's relations with the european union is one word: mockery. the european union has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and i am sure that the european union will be very active in the fight against terrorism. he didn't respect it, and he didn't acknowledge anything. if one looks at the geography of the region, then one sees the enormous responsibility of turkey for the refugee problem. the turkish-syrian border is hundreds of kilometers away from the greek coast, and yet turkey lets refugees unchecked into the country. this is turkey: instead of helping to resolve the refugee problem, it is beating and destroying the kurds who are the only ones who are actually fighting against terrorism. i will call on the dutch presidency not only to press but also to persuade turkey to implement its cypriot obligations towards cyprus. i would call on the dutch presidency to support the president of the republic of cyprus, mr anastasiades, and to support his sincere intentions for a solution to the cyprus problem. i would ask it to stand up and support, even at this late hour, a member state of the european union which is under occupation following an invasion by a country with which we want to cooperate and which we want to consider a reliable partner. turkey - judging by its actions - has not been, is not and cannot become a reliable partner of the european union.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and consider it important to step up crossborder cooperation, particularly in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
gue/ngl), in writing. - we chose abstinence. although the report relates to the prüm decision, which we have consistently opposed, this implementing decision is nevertheless concerned with the data protection safeguards that should be observed before any exchange of personal data. we have consistently advocated for effective data protection measures so that the framework for any exchange of personal data is one of justice.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report concerns the adoption of a council resolution which has been implemented and establishes a crossborder cooperation between latvia and other countries on the intensification of actions to exchange data on vehicle registration. we abstained on this report because the measures proposed do not adequately protect personal data. we also believe that there is a serious risk of a number of individual and collective human rights being violated as methods of monitoring and suppression are being promoted not only of criminal circles but also of organized social groups.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report because it seeks to strengthen the right to a fair trial in criminal proceedings by establishing minimum rules on certain parameters relating to the presumption of innocence and the right of the accused to be present at his trial. by establishing minimum rules for the protection of the procedural rights of suspects or accused persons, this directive will enhance the confidence of member states in the criminal justice systems of other member states and may therefore contribute to facilitating the mutual recognition of decisions in criminal matters.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the after a very good report by the alde rapporteur, mrs griesbeck, our group voted in favour of the report in the libe debate. the first reading of the report by the council was much more conservative than the report by the european parliament. the two institutions had a long discussion and in the end a compromise was reached somewhere in the middle. however, the final report contains important victories for the european parliament, such as the failure to overturn the presumption of innocence. that was one of the key elements for us. in general, we believe that the directive respects the case law of the european court of human rights and in some cases goes even further. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the commission has tabled three notable proposals for directives concerning the presumption of innocence and the right of the accused to be present at criminal proceedings. protected by the eu treaties as well as by the charter of fundamental rights and the echr, these two rights are essential means of protecting the suspect or accused in criminal proceedings and guarantee fair trial for the proper administration of justice. in this context, and in order to ensure that the trial is conducted in an impartial manner, some amendments should be made to the commission's proposals. these amendments, which i consider important and which i support, are, for example, the prohibition of premature guilt assessments from the exercise of the right to remain silent, which should not have a negative impact on the outcome of the trial, and the prohibition of making accusations in the media before the accused is sentenced. in addition, it should be clear that the burden of proof of the accused's guilt is beyond reasonable doubt, as is the case in cypriot law, and therefore if at the end of the trial the court retains any doubt as to the accused's guilt it should acquit the accused. finally, the number of cases where the defendant is tried in absentia should be reduced to an absolute minimum.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we supported the report on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence and the right of the accused to be present at trial in criminal proceedings, as the procedures must first of all respect fundamental rights and be non-discriminatory. the law must be equal to all. otherwise, there is growing doubt and lack of confidence in the justice of society, which leads to violent events and an increase in crime.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and the rapporteur's position that strict requirements should be established for personal protective equipment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the right balance must be struck between the greatest possible protection of consumers and the additional costs this entails for producers, so that small and medium-sized enterprises are not driven into bankruptcy. the shadow rapporteur of our group tabled five amendments in this direction to the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we reject the report on the proposal for a regulation on gas appliances to replace directive 2009/142/ec. this directive is an example of harmonisation of union legislation to ensure the free movement of gas appliances and has contributed significantly to the completion and functioning of the single market by harmonising the conditions for the placing on the market and/or putting into service of gas appliances falling within its scope in relation to risks to gas safety and the rational use of energy. it is recalled that the gas sector plays an important role in the eu economy.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ it is a technical report covering all the formal provisions of eu legislation on goods and setting out the obligations of the relevant economic operators (producers, agents, importers and distributors). that is why we voted in favour of it.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the proposal for a regulation on cableway installations because it aims to harmonise the conditions for placing on the market subsystems and safety components for cableway installations and to ensure the free movement of these products in the eu. all safety components and subsystems should be designed and constructed in compliance with the essential requirements laid down in the regulation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we were concerned that the regulation would be fully harmonised and that it would prevent member states from imposing more stringent or additional measures in their national legislation. the regulation does, however, contain some exceptions and member states retain the ability to legislate in other areas concerning cableway installations, which we believe improves safety. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we vote against the motion for a resolution which points out that the monitoring bodies of various conventions linked to the gsp (eu generalised system of preferences) have identified clear violations by the kyrgyz republic and considers that these violations constitute a serious failure to effectively comply with the relevant conventions included in annex viii of the gsp regulation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the eu has granted trade preferences to developing countries through the generalised system of preferences (gsp) since 1971. the gsp supports these countries in their efforts to assume the specific burdens and responsibilities arising from the ratification of 27 international conventions on human and labour rights, environmental protection and good governance, and from the effective implementation of these conventions. kyrgyzstan has applied for the gsp. the commission has examined the application and has decided that kyrgyzstan fulfils the necessary criteria. we are of the opinion that there are serious contradictions and shortcomings in the implementation of the conventions by kyrgyzstan, and this is also recognised in the commission report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we stand by our objections to the commission's delegated regulation because we consider it wrong that it does not provide for adequate measures to protect infants and young children from obesity. in addition, given the particular vulnerability of the endocrine system of infants and young children, we believe that a zero tolerance policy for pesticides should be applied as a general principle.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the objection is based on the fact that the measure in question does not adopt the necessary measures to prevent obesity, especially in infants and young children, since it allows very high levels of sugar in food contrary to all the recommendations of the world health organization. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we rejected this objection concerning the composition and information criteria for specially processed cereal-based baby foods and baby foods, which are established in accordance with the delegated act resulting from article 11 of regulation (eu) no 609/2013. the objection was that the recent regulation on specific requirements for these processed foods did not provide for the necessary measures to prevent obesity, particularly in infants and young children. it also keeps the sugar levels in these foods high relative to the levels recommended by the world health organization. the introduction of such foods is likely to contribute to the increase in childhood obesity levels. according to experts of the world health organization, sugar levels in infant formula especially must be kept to a minimum to avoid endocrine disruption and future disease in infants.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the motion for a resolution and hope that the negotiations will be concluded as soon as possible so that the final peace agreement can be implemented. the resolution welcomes the historic agreements reached so far by the colombian government.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the it is our firm belief that conflicts must be resolved peacefully and that the efforts of all must be directed in this direction. we have supported the joint resolution because we believe that there is an important effort being made today between the colombian government and the farc to bring peace to the region. the agreement reached in havana on 19 january is another important step in the process of reaching a final peace agreement in colombia.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the members of the european united left have succeeded in adopting a number of important references in the text. i would like to mention a few of them, such as the reference to the activities of paramilitary groups, the call on the government to provide protection for trade unionists and human rights defenders, the reference to the need for citizens to participate in the peace process. for these reasons, and despite our disagreement with individual references (e.g. to terrorist organisations), we voted in favour of the text.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i have just come from a meeting of the eu-turkey joint committee, which was attended by the turkish ambassador. i must say that the commission's spokesman has placed almost the entire burden of responsibility for what is happening in southeastern turkey on the pkk. is it possible that a region of half a million people has been under house arrest for two months and all these people belong to the pkk? i don't think there's a lot of people who can believe that. but if it is, then it is a revolution and not the terrorist activity of so many people. i have just received a message from a htp mp who is trapped in a house in the sur area. his house is being attacked by tanks and soldiers. maybe he told me that that call he made was the last call he'd ever make. i think we are facing a problem which turkey must face because its obligations are great. i believe it is the duty of the european union to convey this message clearly to turkey.
s & d) and the madam president, do you not think we should stop turning a blind eye to reality and be more honest with each other about turkey? is it because there are elections in turkey that it is a democratic country? this is the country that continues to occupy 38% of cyprus, persecute dissidents, imprison journalists, collaborate with isis and send refugees to greece and by extension to europe. as we speak, he is carrying out genocide against the kurdish people, not the pkk. is this the turkey you want as a partner? can you, because of the refugee, turn a blind eye to crimes against humanity? there is only one way: a genuine democratization of turkey. to do this, europe must follow the appropriate 'road map', without concessions to serve any other interests.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the tragic situation created by the continuing killings and mass exterminations of members of religious minorities by isis is taking on uncontrollable dimensions. christians, yazidis, druze, assyrians, members of other religious minorities are threatened every day. isis is aiming to wipe them out. this is genocide. that's why wish lists aren't enough. we need to talk honestly and take decisive action. the european union is not without responsibility for what is happening. with the european union's permission, both france and germany have been arming the jihadists, while to this day the union remains a haven for the united states and its plans to redraw the borders of the wider middle east, thus contributing to the destabilisation of the region. enough of the hypocrisy. it is urgent to address the causes that created and strengthened isis, to end foreign interventions and wars in the arab world and to support practical initiatives for peace in the middle east.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we oppose the report and recall that the republic of cyprus does not recognise the unilaterally declared independence of kosovo and remains fully committed to respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all states, including serbia.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first and most important reason is that the signing of the agreement requires the recognition of kosovo as a state, a position which the republic of cyprus disagrees with, as do other states of the european union. secondly, the agreement is not just a political one, it is a free trade agreement and we have repeatedly expressed our opposition to such policies being promoted by the eu. for these reasons we consider the vote to be the appropriate course of action.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the situation in kosovo is a continuation and consequence of interventionist policies. this is a clear violation of international law and a bad precedent because it increases the risk of being used as a model in other cases. the fact that various circles are linking the case of the 'tdnc' to kosovo is particularly worrying. unfortunately, the report makes a direct call for the recognition of kosovo as an independent state, which would be a circumvention of international law. the european union is also a member of the european union, and the european union is a member of the european union. the ultimate objective is to lead to a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). free trade agreements (ftas) are fully in the eu's interest as they create interdependence - economic and political - with partners and promote fierce competition for the benefit of big business. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of members of the committee of inquiry into emission measurements in the motor vehicle industry. the committee will investigate violations of european regulations by car manufacturers in relation to the measurement of pollutant emissions, as well as any violations by member states and the european commission in the implementation of european standards. the committee will submit an interim report within six months, and a final report within 12 months, of the commencement of its work.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the scandal of falsified emissions data in the automotive industry is a major issue. this huge fraud was exposed in the us, which proves that the eu control system is lax and flawed. the committee of inquiry voted and the members appointed have a duty to fully uncover the scandal as soon as possible and to conduct an inquiry into the role and responsibility of the european commission and the member states, asking them to disclose what they knew about these violations and what measures they had taken.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the european parliament decided, following the revelations of the volkswagen scandal, on 17 december 2015 to set up a committee of inquiry into emission measurements. we supported the recommendation of this committee because it will investigate complaints about the omissions of the commission and the member states' authorities in monitoring the application of union law and will consider the possibility of imposing sanctions on manufacturers for infringements of the provisions. however, we consider it a serious omission that this committee was not empowered to deal with matters concerning the liability of companies and the rights of employees in the companies affected. the european united left group has set up a working group to look into these issues.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the motions for resolutions on the association and free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine because we know that these countries have, as a whole, ratified the association agreements with all their provisions for comprehensive and in-depth free trade areas. in doing so, they have chosen a path of deeper political and economic integration into the european union, which involves ambitious reforms in numerous areas, including democracy, good governance, the rule of law and human rights, and which is worth supporting.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the eu has pursued a policy of extending its economic and political sphere of influence to georgia, moldova and ukraine through the signing of association agreements, including comprehensive and in-depth free trade agreements, without ever taking into account the trade relations and historical interdependence of these countries' economies with those of other countries in the region, including russia. our group calls for the annulment of the three agreements, which we have opposed in the past and which have proved to be detrimental to the well-being of the peoples and to peace in the region. we call for new forms of cooperation between the eu and the eurasian economic union. we condemn in the strongest terms the role and expansion of nato in the region. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. for all these reasons, we voted against the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because we believe that these free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine fully serve the interests of the eu's ruling circles, because they create relations of interdependence - economic and political - with the partners and because they promote unbridled competition for the benefit of big business and at the expense of the interests of society and the people.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i support the european parliament resolution on the mutual defence clause, which was formally invoked by the french government after the terrorist attacks in paris on 13 november. i believe that the invocation of the mutual defence and solidarity clauses under the treaties is primarily a political matter and i believe that when these clauses are invoked, both the european council and the european parliament are the appropriate venues for political dialogue.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we are opposed to the activation of this article of the treaty of lisbon, as we were opposed to it during the debate on the treaty itself when we criticised the introduction of this article. we do not believe that the militarization of the eu's foreign policy can bring the desired peace to our wider region. unfortunately, instead of being helpful in the practical expression of solidarity with member states under attack, the article is only invoked when it is to be used to justify imperialist interventions by eu member states.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the resolution concerns the mutual defence clause of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, under which eu countries must provide 'aid and assistance' to a counterpart member state that is under armed attack, either in the form of exchanging information or even by airstrikes. after the terrorist attacks in paris, the dominant eu powers, led by france, and through regulations such as article 42 of the lisbon treaty, have tried to give their expansionist policies legislative 'approval' and at the same time to involve other countries in their methods in order to more easily achieve their goals in the middle east and africa. the term 'mutual defence clause' is not accidental, as it is also used in article 5 of the nato treaty. we voted against the report because we disagree both with the policy of intervention in the internal affairs of the states and with the aim of creating a european alliance to promote the imperialist policies of the ruling circles of the union.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we vote against the european parliament resolution on the european union's priorities for the 2016 human rights council meetings because we disagree with paragraph 89 which refers to the middle east peace process.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we believe that the issue of human rights is of paramount importance for the eu and the world at large. the question of human rights is not a matter of half-measures or oversights for other interests. the resolution unfortunately does not meet our expectations and we consider that the appropriate attitude is to abstain. we have tabled a resolution as a group which we consider to be more complete, less biased and more representative of the current human rights situation in the world and in the union itself.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we abstained from the vote on the report, although we support the actions of the un high commissioner for refugees in providing aid and support to refugees, because we do not agree with the eu's analysis of the political and social situation in several countries. we also do not share the view that the eu should come to the unhcr meeting with its own agenda.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ i am in favour of voting on the annual report reviewing the work of the committee on petitions for 2014. the committee on petitions is an important tool for citizens to increase their participation in the european democratic process. the committee on petitions also encourages dialogue and informs and supports european citizens in relation to their rights. the committee on petitions provides citizens with a direct link to the institutions and ensures that the practical problems of citizens are heard by them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the report on the activities of the committee on petitions for 2014 because our important amendments were adopted and included in the final text that was voted. in particular, our positions were adopted on the need to highlight important policy issues relating to the commission's activities, such as ttip and migration policies, on the need for more transparency and more improvements in order to facilitate greater citizen participation in reporting. in addition, we must note the need for better management at all stages of the referral procedure, for the creation of committees of referral in the parliaments of the member states and for the reinforcement of the commission secretariat with additional manpower.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because it not only lists the achievements of the committee but also contains important proposals for greater citizen involvement in decision-making and for more transparency in the processes.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment. mr president, first of all, let us congratulate the rapporteur of the report, despite the differences, mr maria. mr draghi, welcome, your presence in the house is always welcome, because it strengthens, among other things, democratic legitimacy. first of all, we acknowledge the efforts you are making and we applaud your policy, especially with the quantitative easing programme, in an extremely difficult environment for inflation and the return to growth. however, the euro area is still a fragile and heterogeneous arena with political and social disparities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so i would like to hear your statement on this matter. secondly, financial fragmentation is a major problem in the euro area. the cost of borrowing for small and mediumsized enterprises remains higher than for large ones, especially in those member states which are in economic crisis and things are getting doubly difficult. and here i would like your opinion on ways of providing low-cost loans to the real economy. the second issue is cooperative credit institutions, which play an important role because of their specific operating principles and their mission. the supervisory authorities should bear in mind that there are specific principles which must be respected, and we would like your comments as well. finally, two short schools: first, non-performing loans. what is your position, should there be a proper mechanism, like in spain or ireland or something else? and one last word on depositions and protection. what do you intend to do for those member states which will not follow your suggestions and will have the banking union à la carte?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, undeclared work is a serious problem for the whole union. but under no circumstances should undeclared work be confused with tax evasion. the memoranda, the austerity policies, the high unemployment rates are burdening the citizens and pushing many workers into insecurity, with companies supporting this practice, exploiting workers to the limit and many member states turning a blind eye. the creation of a platform to prevent and deter undeclared work can be helpful, without replacing national labour authorities, and we are in agreement as the left. the solution to the fight against undeclared work and wage dumping can only be found, however, when the member states introduce protective laws for workers, when they protect collective bargaining and collective agreements. we also believe that the workers' mobilizations must overturn the neoliberal policies of harsh austerity and the memoranda which push workers into poverty and job insecurity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i think that no one doubts that we must crack down on tax evasion, tax fraud, and that multinational companies should pay their taxes as all businesses do. but here, we have to be careful. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. with a common corporate tax rate, and even by raising that tax rate, what they will achieve is to destroy small and mediumsized enterprises in their countries, but also to drive any foreign enterprises to go to other countries outside the european union. i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the fight against fraud, but that it should be involved in the fight against fraud, and that it should be involved in the fight against fraud, and that it should be involved in the fight against fraud.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we agree with the fight against tax evasion and tax fraud, with the achievement of transparency, but this is not linked and has nothing to do with the ability of countries to determine their tax policy freely. the free determination of tax rates by the member states is part of the free economy, it is the basis of healthy competition and it helps the countries to develop their own economic policies. finally, with these policies you will drive foreign companies out of the eu, destroy smes and lead countries with developed financial services to lose significant income and jobs. it does not mean that any country that implements its own tax policy for its own reasons with competitive taxation, hurts the issues of transparency and there is nothing to be ashamed of since everything is done in a transparent and public way. on the other hand, the free determination of tax rates is helpful as a tool for the development of economic and social policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not distorted, and that the tax system is not distorted. it is inconceivable that the eu should impose a common corporate tax rate.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and believe that the setting of rules on the crossing of people cannot be done adequately by the member states, but can be better achieved at european union level.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the this report relates to regulation (ec) no 562/2006 of the european parliament and of the council establishing a community code on the rules relating to the cross-border movement of persons. the report is a simple codification of the various versions and amendments of the regulation from 15 march 2006 onwards. the codification preserves the full content of the legal acts being codified and merely brings together in one text all the amendments adopted since the last codification. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the human environment from air pollution. we support the report and believe that the problems caused by air pollution should be tackled at international level.
in writing. ‒ the two amendments to the 1979 conventions are the acceptance of the procedural amendments upgrading these conventions which have already been adopted at international level and now need to be transposed into the eu legal framework.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the environment from air pollution. the 1998 aarhus protocol on heavy metals aims to reduce and control emissions into the atmosphere. it requires the parties to reduce their total annual emissions for these three metals. the amended protocol specifies, in particular, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain main fixed sources, as well as flexible transitional arrangements applicable to the benefit of contracting parties that accede to the amended protocol before the end of 2019. the ratification of the amendment will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ we support the report which stresses that air pollutants can travel many thousands of kilometres before they settle and therefore the problems caused by air pollution should be addressed at international level.
in writing. ‒ the two amendments to the 1979 conventions are the acceptance of the procedural amendments upgrading these conventions which have already been adopted at international level and now need to be transposed into the eu legal framework.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the environment from air pollution. the 1998 aarhus protocol aims to control and reduce emissions. the amended protocol updates the implementation requirements for various substances, updates the restrictions on emissions from various sources, and adds to the list new substances affected by the annual total emission limits and reporting obligations. the ratification of the amendments will be an important step towards a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ we support the report aimed at strengthening judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime and corruption. there is a clear operational need for eurojust to cooperate with ukraine in order to combat international crime and to strengthen judicial cooperation in europe.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the agreement for which parliament's consent is sought concerns judicial cooperation between the eu and ukraine. in ukraine there is a regime which condemns and outlaws political parties, including the communist party of ukraine, which sends people to prison purely for their political beliefs, and the eu wants to strengthen its relations with it in the judicial field. the agreement provides for the exchange of information, including personal data, which may be used by ukraine to serve the purposes set out above. the european commission is also currently pushing for a regulation on eurojust, which would give the european parliament more powers to draw up such cooperation agreements. in this case, it is simply a matter of seeking the approval of the ep. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because it provided for parliament's approval of judicial cooperation between the eu and ukraine, which we do not agree with, as at the moment ukraine is under a regime of repression and violence. political parties have been banned, including the communist party, people are imprisoned and tortured on a daily basis, historical rehabilitation and vindication of ukrainian nazis is being sought, while the education of the youth has been entrusted to members of fascist organizations. the eu's attitude towards ukraine is further proof of its hypocritical behaviour in applying its values and ideals as it sees fit. at the same time, the attempt to further link up and cooperate with ukraine is a continuation of their interventionist policy in the region to serve their geopolitical interests, which was launched with the support of the illegal coup by right-wing and far-right circles. the agreement provides for the exchange of information, including personal data, which will lead to the targeting of hundreds of people opposed to the ukrainian government's plans.
in writing. ‒ we support the report to strengthen judicial cooperation in the fight against serious crime, in particular organised crime and terrorism.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the agreement for which parliament's consent is sought concerns judicial cooperation between the eu and montenegro. the agreement provides for the exchange of information, including personal data, which raises reasonable questions. the european commission is currently promoting a regulation on eurojust which proposes greater powers for the ep in drawing up these cooperation agreements. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. for these reasons we consider the abstinence attitude to be more appropriate.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we support the need to fight organised crime and terrorism. however, we cannot support the promotion of measures which jeopardise the right to the protection of personal data and other human rights and freedoms. the european commission is also currently pushing for a regulation on eurojust which would give the european parliament more powers in drawing up such cooperation agreements. the commission is simply asking for the ep's approval. for these reasons we abstained from this agreement.
in writing. ‒ we support the request for the colleague's immunity to be lifted
in writing. ‒ the colleague in question has twice exceeded the speed limit with his car. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's powers are not undermined by the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter.
in writing. ‒ we support the request for the colleague's immunity to be lifted
in writing. ‒ the colleague in question has twice exceeded the speed limit with his car. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's powers are not undermined by the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the matter.
in writing. ‒ we support the request for the colleague's immunity to be lifted
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances. the report argues that the case brought by qatar against the mep will set a bad precedent against the fundamental right of freedom of expression.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the report and welcome the creation of this platform. however, we stress that this measure alone is not sufficient to follow up the various proposals, including legislative proposals, contained in the european parliament resolution of january 2014 on 'effective labour inspections'. the amendments by the european parliament aim to make the platform more effective in carrying out its tasks and objectives. in particular, it is considered necessary to include in the scope of the decision the falsely declared work. the submission of false information about working hours or remuneration is a form of false employment which cannot be excluded from the mission of the platform. we also support the close involvement of the social partners in the activities of the platform, as well as the national focal points.
in writing. ‒ the in january 2014, the ep adopted a resolution on increased cooperation and strengthening of national labour inspection services to combat undeclared work. in april 2014, the commission presented a proposal to create a european platform to strengthen cooperation at eu level. the pirinski report welcomes the creation of the platform and proposes a number of amendments. our group has tabled 26 amendments to the committee. the majority of these were incorporated into the report, and despite some weaknesses, we consider this to be a good first step, which is why we voted in favour of the report.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i supported the european parliament's proposal on combating undeclared work. undeclared work tends to be a major problem for the social cohesion of the european union and any legislative initiative aimed at harmonising controls between member states and the union can only be supported. according to eurofound data, undeclared work accounts for more than 18% of the union's gross domestic product. its extent varies considerably between member states, ranging from less than 8% to over 30% of gdp, and there is a clear divide within the union between north and south and between east and west. i am also aware of the very serious consequences that such a practice can have for the citizens of the union, since it is often linked to the absence of agreements and working conditions. all of the above suggests that support for legislative initiatives aimed at combating undeclared work is imperative.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report concerns the creation of a european platform for the exchange of information and the strengthening of cooperation between member states to prevent and combat undeclared work. it is the result of a trilogue between parliament, the commission and the council, in which it appears that even the commission has tried to play a constructive role. we voted against the report because, on the one hand, it stresses that the member states have the first say in cooperation between them, and, on the other hand, the report is sensitive to the social issues of precarious work and social dumping. there are also reports on the fight against undeclared work particularly for domestic helpers, on practices promoted by 'mailbox' businesses and support for social security.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the report and believe that the loss of biodiversity is a loss for nature, for people and for the economy. we agree with the rapporteur who calls for a stronger political will to tackle biodiversity loss as a priority and for a multilateral approach where regional and local actors play a special role. improved implementation and enforcement of existing legislation are key words in achieving progress.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the eu's target to halt biodiversity loss was not met in 2010. the eu responded by setting out a new strategy in 2011. in 2015, it was clear that without more effort, the eu would fail again in 2020 to achieve its goals. the report tackles the biodiversity strategy as an objective and recommends better implementation of all relevant legislation. the report also contains additional measures on which the commission and the member states should focus their efforts. we voted against the report.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report in recognition of the need for urgent action to protect europe's biodiversity, which is essential to our health and well-being and to our economic well-being. the report proposes european and national actions to achieve the objectives of the european biodiversity strategy by 2020 and suggests the full implementation, enforcement and funding of the birds and habitats directives. with climate change, we are seeing a reshaping of fauna and flora that is directly affecting the biodiversity of the planet. finally, if we take into account that the proportion of european ecoregions with at least 17% of their territory in protected areas is significantly reduced when excluding areas protected exclusively by the natura 2000 network, it is important to emphasise the role and involvement of sites in this network, including sites in cyprus.
blue-card question.– you made the point at the very beginning that external frontiers must be protected. my question is very simple. when it comes to the greek border with turkey, you make that point very clearly, and so do many other people here in this chamber. would you say the same thing about turkey violating greece’s airspace and waters, or would you have a double standard? we have to be clear on that point. is it a european border or not?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i think we are tragic. we're tragic because we're having a conversation every month with no suggestions coming from anywhere. there are no proposals from parliament, from the commission, there are no proposals from the united nations. but there is one key difference between this discussion and the previous ones. in the old days we said winter is coming, now we say spring is coming. there is another key difference. a few hundred dead have been added. turkey has taken on a great burden, but who controls whether the money is actually going to the cause it is given? you can tie up lebanon. 20% of its population are refugees. these figures we are referring to are 0.1% of the population of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. who is supplying the weapons to the fighters in syria? why doesn't anyone report this? in the last conversation i said that if i were a refugee and i was listening to this conversation, i would find a way to go and drown. i think people have heard us and that's exactly what they're doing. i shall close with a wording. i have not heard a proposal from the commission either and i wonder what they are really thinking today after tens of thousands of dead and after ... )
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. as much as we may be critical or self-critical, we must say that yes, what should have been done may not have been done, but if everyone had done what the european union did, we would probably not be talking about refugees today. what did the others do when the european union, in 2015 alone, gave financial aid for the broader issue of some eighteen billion? how many discussions, how many efforts, how many actions and how many actions have been undertaken by the european union, when the arab league, the united states of america, russia and other european countries which are not members of the european union have done virtually nothing and have been apathetic observers or even critics of the european union? but we have something very important to say. greece does not create refugees. greece is welcoming refugees. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the internal market, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. i believe that those who continue to shoot at greece do not love the european union itself and those who think that greece should stay out of schengen are because they want to undermine and blow up the european union. i believe that if we want to look for responsibility we have to look at turkey, which is basically leaving the refugees and sending them to greece. what do some people want, greece to send refugees back to turkey? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
gue/ngl), in writing. the eu has failed to respond to the urgent need for protection and humanitarian aid for refugees. as a result, in 2015, almost 4,000 refugees died on the shores of the union. the mediterranean has become a graveyard. and the list of deaths in 2016 continues to grow dangerously. 10,000 unaccompanied refugee children have gone missing in the eu. in turkey, the country that has been given the title of safe destination and we are discussing today its economic aid, we know that thousands of refugee children are working illegally in industry and millions of refugees are struggling to survive without any support from the turkish state. the eu cannot continue to play with the dignity and lives of refugees. we have to stop the crime now! the funds allocated to fencing up the frontiers and turning europe into a killing fortress should be used to receive refugees and transport them to their countries of destination. it is equally important to strengthen practical solidarity directly with host countries, such as greece, which is receiving the largest waves of refugees.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, tackling the refugee crisis requires a solidarity and humanitarian approach. the european union must not continue to support a xenophobic, racist europe as a murderous fortress with closed borders, which sees refugees as a threat to its citizens. in addition to the extreme right-wing parties, we have unfortunately recently seen xenophobic approaches by some governments in eastern europe, racist voices from parties in the ecr group, and dangerous statements by party officials in the ppe group, which are fostering a climate of xenophobia and racism and which must be dealt with effectively. unfortunately, tolerance and failure of the european council to manage refugees has led to the intensification of xenophobia, racism and violence. the progressive and democratic forces must act decisively to stop the crime now, so that the ideology of racism and fascism does not revive in europe. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work, which would be compatible with the directive. )
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. the european union is a very important institution. it is easy to criticize, even to criticise, the european union and the work it does, especially the present european commission. we are doing the present european commission a disservice by not mentioning that it is the commission which has had to deal with the most serious problems the european union has had since its foundation. he had the ukrainian, he had greece, he had the refugee, he had the terrorism and he had the investor. we are constantly upgrading our criticism of the european union and the european commission and downgrading the great successes. the commission is not in a position to give its opinion on the matter, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give his opinion on the matter. but i would like to take this opportunity to make it clear to the european council, mr president, that the president is taking the floor. )
in writing. ‒ we support the association agreement with moldova, which includes a bilateral safeguard clause. thus, preferences may be temporarily suspended in case their application may lead to an unexpected and significant increase in imports causing economic injury to the domestic industry of the importing party (i.e. it is possible either to suspend further liberalisation of duties or to reinstate the most-favoured-nation (mfn) tariff rate). in addition, the agreement also contains a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reinstating the 'most favoured state' tariff rate when imports of certain agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold, without duly justifying their exact origin.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report implements provisions adopted under the eu-moldova association agreement. it concerns substantive safeguard clauses for the imposition of measures when imports of certain products reach a level which is considered to be likely to affect producers in the eu or when there is no proper justification of their exact origin (circumvention mechanism). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the eu-moldova association agreement to include the eu's neighbours in the region, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we disagree with the content of the eu association agreement with moldova because it fully serves the interests of the eu's ruling circles. it creates interdependent relations - economic and political - with its partners and promotes extreme competition to the benefit of big business and to the detriment of the interests of society and the people. however, we voted against this report as it specifically refers to the safeguard clause which can be imposed when a product originating in moldova is imported into the union in such increased quantities as to cause economic damage to the domestic industry of the eu. the report also refers to the anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reinstating the gsp tariff rate when imports of agricultural products from moldova exceed a certain threshold without duly justifying their exact origin. the circumvention clauses are important to prevent imports into the union of non-moldovan products via moldova which would benefit from the agreement and circumvent the rules of origin requirements.
in writing. ‒ the eu-georgia association agreement includes the so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reinstating the most-favoured-state tariff rate when imports of certain agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without duly justifying their exact origin. we therefore support the report and consider that a regulation of the european parliament and the council is required to incorporate into eu law the necessary means to enable the anti-circumvention mechanism to be implemented.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report implements provisions adopted under the eu-georgia association agreement. it essentially concerns the introduction of measures where there is no proper justification of their exact origin (circumvention mechanism). despite our disagreement with the content of the eu-georgia association agreement, we voted in favour of the report because the circumvention mechanism is an important tool to prevent non-georgian products from being imported into the union through the country.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we disagree with the content of the eu-georgia association agreement because it fully serves the interests of the eu's ruling circles. it creates interdependent relations - economic and political - with its partners and promotes extreme competition to the benefit of big business and to the detriment of the interests of society and the people. however, we voted against this report because it refers to the anti-circumvention mechanism which provides for the possibility of reinstating the gsp tariff rate when imports of agricultural products from georgia exceed a certain threshold without adequate justification of their exact origin. the circumvention clauses are important to prevent imports of non-georgian products into the union via georgia which would benefit from the agreement and circumvent the rules of origin requirements.
in writing. ‒ we support the ratification of the treaty and call on the council and the member states to speed up the ratification process.
in writing. ‒ we supported the european parliament resolution on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty, on the basis of the submissions made, in particular reference no 924/2011 on the grounds that it establishes the right of persons with disabilities to education without discrimination and on an equal basis, while ensuring that the provisions on the protection of intellectual property rights do not create barriers to access to cultural goods by persons with disabilities. it also condemns the fact that seven eu member states have not yet ratified the treaty.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we oppose the proposal, taking into account the concerns often expressed at national level concerning issues related to the safety of genetically modified organisms for health or the environment.
in writing. ‒ the given our opposition to gmos, we supported the three relevant objections. in october last year, the commission's proposal on gmos was rejected by the ep. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report to veto the authorization of the placing on the market of genetically modified soya, since our aim remains to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, the environment and the interests of consumers. we also took into account the conclusions of the world health organization's cancer research service, which states that the three types of genetically modified soybeans contain various types of herbicides that have been identified as possibly carcinogenic to humans. we also oppose the eu's practice of deciding and enforcing the placing and use of genetically modified products on the markets of the member states, since the sovereignty of the states to decide on crucial issues such as the health and welfare of their citizens must never be sacrificed on the altar of profit and competition.
in writing. ‒ we vote against the motion for a resolution and stress that our aim is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the given our opposition to gmos, we supported the three relevant objections. in october last year, the commission's proposal on gmos was rejected by the ep. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report to veto the authorization of the placing on the market of genetically modified soya, since our aim remains to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, the environment and the interests of consumers. we also took into account the conclusions of the world health organization's cancer research service, which states that the three types of genetically modified soybeans contain various types of herbicides that have been identified as possibly carcinogenic to humans. in addition, we oppose the practice of the eu deciding and enforcing the placing and use of genetically modified products on the markets of the member states, as under no circumstances should the sovereignty of the states to decide on crucial issues such as the health and welfare of their citizens be sacrificed on the altar of profit and competition.
in writing. ‒ we vote against the motion for a resolution and stress that our aim is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, the environment and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed, while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the given our opposition to gmos, we supported the three relevant objections. in october last year, the commission's proposal on gmos was rejected by the ep. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report to veto the authorization of the placing on the market of genetically modified soya, since our aim remains to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, the environment and the interests of consumers. we also took into account the conclusions of the world health organization's cancer research service, which states that the three types of genetically modified soybeans contain various types of herbicides that have been identified as possibly carcinogenic to humans. we also oppose the eu's practice of deciding and enforcing the placing and use of genetically modified products on the markets of the member states, since the sovereignty of the states to decide on crucial issues such as the health and welfare of their citizens must never be sacrificed on the altar of profit and competition.
in writing. ‒ the proposal contains important positive elements, but also a number of negative points. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission has proposed a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 692/2008 on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (euro 6). this resolution is opposed to the commission regulation because it would result in an exemption from the euro 6 emission limit for nox. moreover, the regulation goes beyond the implementing powers of the previous regulation. we voted for the resolution.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the joint report to veto the adoption of the commission's draft regulation which would result in a derogation from the euro 6 nox emission limits as set out in commission regulation (ec) no 692/2008. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'recycled' to cover the use of the term 'recycled' in the context of the directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the new plan would require car manufacturers to reach a 'temporary compliance factor' which would effectively raise emissions to 168 mg/km. the commission's decision confirms our concerns about its hypocritical attitude to the issue of reducing emissions and climate change, as was shown by the volkswagen scandal.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the report and the rapporteur's position that the negotiations on tisa must ensure greater reciprocity in market access, create a level playing field, provide tangible benefits to consumers and give stakeholders access to the talks, in order to facilitate future multilateralism. we stress that public and cultural services, fundamental rights to data protection and fair working conditions, as well as the right to regulate, are non-negotiable and should be explicitly excluded from the scope of the agreement. the european parliament must work constructively and realistically to give a positive character, clarity and priority to the tisa negotiations to ensure that a good agreement is reached in the interests of european businesses and consumers.
in writing. ‒ the the position of the left both inside and outside parliament, as well as the position of the trade unions, social movements and other social bodies, is clearly against tisa, as it was against ttip. the reasons, as in ttip, are that with the liberalisation of services, the process of redistributing capital and labour in the provision of services to the benefit of ever larger companies will begin, wages will be pushed down, and collective agreements will be dissolved with negative effects on workers' insurance. that is why we voted against the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the position of the left both inside and outside parliament, as well as the position of trade unions, social movements and other social bodies, is clearly against tisa, as it was against ttip. in uruguay, the unions have succeeded in pressuring the government to withdraw from the negotiations. the reasons, as in ttip, are that with the liberalisation of services, the process of redistributing capital and labour in the provision of services to the benefit of ever larger companies will begin, wages will be pushed down, and collective agreements will be dissolved with negative effects on workers' insurance. we voted against the report, as did the whole of the eec/asean group in parliament.
in writing. ‒ we recall that equality between women and men is one of the objectives of the european union. unfortunately, we have to vote against the motion for a resolution because important amendments which we supported and which we considered to be unnecessary were not voted for by the house.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution asks the commission to explain why it has only presented a working document and not a real public communication on a 'new strategy for gender equality and women's rights after 2015'. the groups which have tabled this resolution consider that this approach of the commission is a step down in relation to these issues.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the equality between men and women is an indicator of the real progress of a society. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full, and that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. this requires a new coherent strategy on women's rights, which should, inter alia, address issues such as the gender pay gap, reconciliation of family and working life and the place of women in political and economic decision-making. it must also include specific evaluation criteria and a specific budget to allow for growth and progress with indicators that are measurable. the above is essential if we are to speak of truly developed societies in which fundamental human rights can be freely exercised and existing inequalities between men and women can be overcome. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the resolution on a new strategy for women's rights and gender equality in europe after 2015.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the joint resolution as it criticised the eu for not having made progress in formulating a strategy despite its commitments and instead merely presenting a working document with a general framework of application, which it called 'strategic commitment for gender equality 2016-2019', and which has no legislative force. the delay in the establishment of a new european strategy on equality between men and women reflects the eu's general tendency to treat the issue as a secondary issue. as a group, we place equal treatment between men and women at the heart of our actions and priorities and we consider that the eu's main policies on this matter are unfortunately ineffective and do not respond to the real needs of societies, as their aim remains to shield the competitiveness of big business. this is achieved through the provision of cheaper labour and flexible forms of work, as evidenced by the 2014 statistics where 32.2% of employed women were in part-time jobs, compared to 8.8% of men, at the same time as the eu was celebrating increases in women's employment rates.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the countries of the western balkans have gone through very significant difficulties, particularly in the 1990s, through many wars and a lot of blood. but today we are in a new phase in which a strong effort is being made to solve problems, not with weapons this time, but through dialogue and the will to cooperate. the european union should support this effort and, in particular, in this case, the dialogue between belgrade and pristina to find a political solution to the kosovo issue. we believe that the european union, and in particular this parliament, should not be encouraging this effort and this dialogue. any settlement should be the result of a dialogue between pristina and serbia. we support as a group the accession process of serbia. however, we disagree with the union's position expressed in the report, which interferes with the conduct of serbia's foreign policy. but also in imposing economic models that have been proven to have affected the people of europe so negatively. let us deepen our relations so as to support the country in its efforts to tackle the very serious problems it has, to deepen the rule of law, to tackle corruption, organised crime and the flows of refugees that have recently arrived in the country.
s & d) and the mr president, in a europe where respect for diversity is a basic principle, it is not enough to simply know about areas with permanent particularities and handicaps. the problems of the island regions are many and their isolation must be avoided. targeted initiatives are needed to overcome the chronic problems they face, which in many cases lead to problems in accessing basic goods such as water, as well as deprivation of basic services such as health care. we have the example of the small islands in greece. we also need to make the most of the comparative advantages of island regions, such as the exploitation of various forms of renewable energy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is fully integrated into the union's macro-financial assistance. finally, i would point out that the eurostat definition should not be used since the one-sided approach which exists by using only one criterion, whether an island region is an island state or not, does not give weight to other important issues, such as the population and the distance of the island region from continental europe.
the commission mr president, first of all i should like to thank and congratulate my dear colleague, salvatore cicu, and also the other colleagues who have really touched upon the issue of our islands. europe is our islands. first of all, it's our islands. imagine a european union and a europe without the islands! but i think it's time to stop talking and start doing. the islands are isolated and everyone recognizes it i believe in particular that the islands must come out of isolation. we have specific proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is isolation. the european union could support our initiative to create a free wi-fi network for all the islands. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the islands are able to meet the needs of the population. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity, but a political entity. i think they deserve it, mr president.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and welcome the progress made by serbia on its path towards european integration, as well as its efforts to comply with the copenhagen criteria and the conditions of the stabilisation and association process.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we support serbia's accession process, but we disagree with the union's position expressed in the report, which interferes with the conduct of serbia's foreign policy. we also disagree with the attempt to impose economic models which have been proven to have affected the peoples of europe so negatively. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process, and it is a party to the peace process.
in writing. ‒ the we abstained in the report because the proposals put forward seek to intervene in the internal affairs of the country by creating relations of dependence rather than cooperation. the eu also called on serbia to continue the process of normalising relations with kosovo and to make substantial progress towards recognition. it also calls on serbia to align its foreign and security policy with that of the eu, especially with regard to russia, and to continue the harsh neoliberal economic reforms of harsh austerity, which have led to increased unemployment and poverty, reduced productivity and a huge budget deficit. however, we did not vote against the report because the decision to join the eu is a right of the country itself and its people.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the motion for a resolution and recall that the republic of cyprus does not recognise the unilaterally declared independence of kosovo and remains fully committed to respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all states, including serbia.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report presents kosovo as an independent state and calls on the five member states which have not recognised it to do so immediately. we are not in favour of the idea of a european union, but we are in favour of the idea of a european union, and we are in favour of the idea of a european union. we support this process and believe that there should be no outside interference affecting the whole climate, but purely support for the process itself. we have tried to convey this message in our amendments, but they have not been accepted by the majority of the house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the situation in kosovo is a continuation and consequence of interventionist policies. it is a clear violation of international law that sets a bad precedent, and risks being used as a model in other cases. the fact that various circles are linking the case of the 'tbk' to kosovo is particularly worrying. the report urges those member states which have not recognised kosovo, including cyprus, to do so. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ we support the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in libya and express our grave concern about the plight of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees in libya. we call on the eu and the member states to take measures to deal effectively with the increasing flows of migrants and refugees from north africa, and in particular from libya. at the same time, we call on the commission and the european external action service to focus their support on state and institution building and, together with the member states, the un, nato and regional partners, to contribute to security sector reform and the establishment, under the control of the government of national unity, of an effective national army and police force capable of ensuring control throughout the territory and territorial waters of libya.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the situation in libya is the result of the intervention of the united states and its allies in the name of the so-called arab spring. as we have all seen, no spring has come, but instead the country is being pushed further and further into chaos. at a time when the presence of isis in the country is causing deep concern and terrorist attacks and violence are a daily occurrence, reports are emerging of further military intervention by the us, france, uk and italy. we insist that the only way forward is to continue the dialogue between all parties to find a solution that will ensure the territorial integrity and independence of libya. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, including the european information and communication networks, and for the establishment of a european network of information and communication networks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the joint resolution because it supports the military intervention of the nato-sponsored states in libya in 2011, while supporting the presence of foreign forces in the region as a security shield. as the etuc/cfsp and acl, we condemn once again the criminal military intervention in libya, which has led to the destruction of the country and the destabilisation of the region. the nato intervention has further deepened the civil war, as while libya is still subject to an international embargo imposed in 2011 by the un security council, nato members and their allies have been arming significant armed groups in violation of international law. at the same time, the eu set up the eu border assistance mission in libya, to provide military assistance to the libyan authorities at a cost of €30 million, which is being spent on private security companies. the purpose of the western intervention in libya is none other than to control and dominate the rich energy resources of the region. the result of all this is the humanitarian crisis in libya that has forced thousands of refugees to flee the country and to undergo enormous risks in their quest for a better tomorrow.
in writing. ‒ the we support the motion for a resolution and recall that reducing economic, social and environmental disparities between regions is a major objective of european cohesion policy. the impact of the economic crisis has seriously damaged the development potential of many disadvantaged regions, including islands, and reversed the long-term trend of convergence of gdp and unemployment rates across the eu, increasing poverty and social exclusion and hampering the achievement of the union's long-term objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion. we stress that islands, as peripheral regions on the eu's external borders, are particularly vulnerable to today's challenges (globalisation, demographic challenges, climate change, energy supply and, particularly for the southern regions, exposure to increasing migratory flows). for the above reasons, we call on the commission to draw up an 'eu strategic framework for islands', as we call on member states and regional and local authorities to play an important role in development strategies for islands based on a vertical approach involving all levels of governance, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, in the perspective of ensuring sustainable development for eu islands.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we supported the report on island-building because it proposes concrete measures to address the permanent handicaps faced by europe's islands. the text also points out the unique difficulties faced by the southern island regions of europe due to increased migration flows and calls for the continuation of the special tax arrangements for islands, 'in particular those countries undergoing economic adjustment programmes'. in particular, it calls on the commission to (a) create, on the basis of article 174 tfeu, which recognises the permanent handicaps of island regions, a homogeneous group consisting of all island regions, (b) take into account, in addition to gdp, other statistical indicators reflecting economic and social vulnerability as a result of permanent natural handicaps, (c) produce an in-depth study/analysis on the extra costs of living in island regions, as regards the transport system, energy supply and access to markets, and finally to submit a communication on the eu agenda for new zealand and a follow-up to the development of access to new zealand.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution concerns the member states whose islands are in the eu and which are facing enormous problems in the face of today's challenges. the resolution calls for the disadvantages faced by islands to be taken into account as soon as possible in the design of european structural and investment funds financing, so that best practice is sought. it also called on the commission to define immediately the type of geographical, physical and demographic handicaps faced by islands in relation to the mainland, which constitute obstacles to their economic, social and territorial development. in addition to the challenges of the economic crisis, which has created greater problems in reducing island populations and further problems in transport and transport, in the last two years the islands, mainly in greece and italy, have had to cope with increasing refugee flows, without substantial support and planning from the eu, which is what the report seeks to do. the references to the creation of a strategic framework for islands and the emphasis on the protection of habitats are also important. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ we support the motion for a resolution and stress the crucial role of local and regional authorities in shaping and implementing eu strategies. eu cohesion policy is a good example of a multi-level governance with a bottom-up approach, where local and regional authorities, in their engagement with the european structural and investment funds, strike a balance between the union's objective of greater economic, social and territorial cohesion and the territorial impact of eu policies. finally, we note the challenges facing local and regional authorities such as globalisation, climate change, energy security, migration flows and increased urbanisation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against this resolution because we agree with the philosophy of the structural policies pursued through these funds and also agree with the way in which this policy is managed which is underlined in the resolution, namely multi-level governance with a bottom-up approach. we also agree with the resolution when it calls on the commission to help build institutional capacity by local authorities in the member states implementing structural policies.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the resolution because i agree with the approach taken to the importance and the critical importance of the role of local and regional authorities in the eu in the context of the european structural and investment funds. in this context, i recognise the particular importance of the remarks made on the member states' compliance with the requirements stemming from the enhanced partnership principles, in order to ensure the maximum active participation and involvement of local and regional authorities in the preparation and implementation of operational programmes, and the importance of support initiatives by the commission to address administrative and structural weaknesses of local and regional authorities, so that they can achieve maximum impact from the esi funds and a higher absorption rate.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the resolution as it aims to further strengthen the role of regional and local authorities in the formulation of national policies on local and regional environmental issues. in the context of cohesion policy, which has been given legal force by regulation 1303/2013 on the operation of the esi funds, it has been set as an objective that the views and positions of local authorities should be taken into account in the consultations on regulations and the approval of operational programmes (programmes financed by the esi funds in each country). however, the degree of involvement of local and regional authorities in these negotiations varies across the member states and further strengthening of this role is necessary to implement the objectives of cohesion policy more effectively.
in writing. ‒ we support the joint resolution on the humanitarian situation in yemen and stress that only a political, inclusive and negotiated solution to the conflict can lead to the restoration of peace and the preservation of yemen's unity, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. we urge all parties concerned to engage as soon as possible in a new round of peace negotiations under the auspices of the un.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the yemen has been in a long-running conflict, which intensified in 2015 when saudi arabia, as the head of a us-backed coalition, began bombing yemen, while imposing a near-total import embargo on the country. this situation has led to hunger and poverty for the people, while attacks on civilians, medical personnel and members of humanitarian organisations have caused huge loss of life. the conflict is yet another attempt by the us and its allies to maintain their geopolitical control and dominance in the region. the eu is also complicit in this crime, which, by tolerating the dictatorships in the region and its member states, which continue to export heavy defence equipment to saudi arabia, is contributing to the worsening of the conflict in the country. the serious deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen requires immediate humanitarian assistance, and we therefore consider that a vote in favour of the joint resolution is the appropriate course of action.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the joint resolution because the serious deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen requires immediate humanitarian assistance. the country is in the midst of a long-running confrontation between the houthis and the yemeni government, which intensified in 2015 when saudi arabia, as the head of a us-backed coalition, began bombing yemen while imposing a near-total import ban on the country. this situation has led to hunger and poverty for the people, while attacks on civilians, medical personnel and members of humanitarian organisations have caused huge loss of life. the conflict is yet another attempt by the us and its allies to maintain their geopolitical control and dominance in the region. the eu is also complicit in this crime, which, by tolerating the dictatorships in the region and its member states, which continue to export heavy defence equipment to saudi arabia, is contributing to the worsening of the conflict in the country. we condemn once again the attitude of the usa, its allies and the eu's ruling circles and call for immediate action to stop the humanitarian crisis in yemen.
in writing. ‒ we support the european parliament's joint motion for a resolution on the systematic mass killings of religious minorities by the so-called 'isis/daesh' and stress the importance of the international community offering protection and assistance to all those targeted by the so-called 'isis/daesh' and other terrorist organisations in the middle east, such as ethnic and religious minorities. we reaffirm our full and active support for the international diplomatic efforts and the work of un special envoy staffan de mistura aimed at launching peace negotiations between all syrian parties.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we condemn the practice of isis in the mass extermination of minorities and call on the international community to fight for a political solution to the issue. we call for ways to stop funding the organization and stop the sale of weapons in the region. our position is to find a political solution in syria that ensures the indivisibility of the country and the only way is to end the war in syria and iraq and find a political solution within the framework of the un. we must not forget, however, that the strengthening of isis was a result of the intervention of the us and its allies in the middle east in an attempt to expand their control over the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the on 27 january 2016, a motion for a resolution on the systematic mass killings of religious minorities by the terrorist organisation isis was tabled in the european parliament. i could not help but express support for the content of that resolution. it is a macabre and genocidal way that isis treats religious minorities. the activities of that terrorist organisation are motivated by religious or ethnic motives, contribute to the destruction of cultural heritage and constitute a global and unprecedented threat to international peace and security. this daily slaughter is yet another slap in the face of the failure of international humanitarian law. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the tragic situation with the ongoing killings and mass exterminations of religious minorities by isis is taking on uncontrollable dimensions. that's why wish lists aren't enough. we need to talk honestly. europe is not without responsibility for what is happening. with the eu's permission, both france and germany have been arming the jihadists, and to this day the eu is becoming a backstop for the us, contributing to the destabilization of the region. at the same time, knowing that turkey is military-supporting and supporting isis, you whistle indifferently. enough of the hypocrisy. it is imperative that the causes that created and strengthen isis be addressed urgently. an end to foreign interference and wars in the arab world. the european union is also committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the region. it is equally important that we do not allow muslims to be targeted for what is happening. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that is responsible for the implementation of the convention. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but a party to the peace process.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european semester is the institution of neoliberalism. and this year in the reports on the european semester i read how this helps the single market and competitiveness and how this promotes employment and growth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the reports on the european semester have highlighted the advantages of coordinating the union's economic policies. what coordination ? we are not going to accept that the european semester is only about promoting the interests of large multinational companies and cutting down wages and social rights. we, as the left, reject the european semester, and that is why we shall vote against the reports, but also against the logic of neoliberalism, austerity in the memoranda and budgetary discipline to the detriment of the people. the president interrupts the speaker.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we believe that employment and social inclusion issues should be high on the european union's agenda and that effective action should be taken in coordination and cooperation between the european parliament, the european commission and the european council, with one single objective: to increase employment and reduce unemployment and social exclusion. this must be the eu's overriding priority and it must focus and respond in practice with policies, projects and strong funding towards tackling unemployment and social exclusion. in recent years the eu has been severely tested by the social and relentless nightmare of unemployment which is affecting almost all european countries and societies beyond repair. the thousands of unemployed europeans, and especially the young, must not leave us alone for a moment. the vision of a united europe and a social europe has no place for the unemployed, the socially excluded, those below the poverty line. the impact of unemployment, particularly among young people, has enormous social and economic implications. i would point out that the loss of human capital due to unemployment is enormous and that the total cost of unemployment has been estimated at eur 153 billion per year.
in writing. ‒ we support the recommendation. of the 28 member states of the union, 26 are already parties to the hague convention. the other two, austria and malta, have expressed their interest in joining, which we welcome.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system whereby judicial documents may be served in another contracting state. of the 28 member states of the union, 26 are already parties to the convention. the other two, austria and malta, have expressed interest in joining. malta has already submitted the accession documents but has made a declaration that its accession will not take effect until the adoption of this decision. austria awaits this decision in order to complete the accession formalities. the report is a procedural one, and we have voted in favour of it.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the hague convention of 15 november 1965 established a system whereby judicial documents may be served in another contracting state. of the 28 member states of the union, only austria and malta are not parties to the convention but have expressed an interest in joining. the union should authorise those two states to act on its behalf in order to accede to the convention. as it is the wish of sovereign states to accede to the convention, we voted in favour of the report, which called on parliament to adopt the proposal for a decision allowing austria and malta to accede to the convention.
in writing. ‒ we support the report on the agreement signed on 8 december 2015 between the european union and san marino on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which aims to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement constitutes an important step in the ongoing efforts to crack down on tax fraud and tax evasion.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ san marino is considered an attractive destination for high-net-worth accounts, which are transferred there to avoid taxation of their wealth. the report also calls for the introduction of a new system of taxation of savings income, which is to be introduced in the member states.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report as it promotes more transparency in taxing savings income. our support is also based on the fact that san marino is considered an attractive destination for high-net-worth accounts, who transfer their accounts there to avoid taxation of their wealth.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the report on the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 july 1995 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, to the protocol of 27 september 1996 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union, to the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests, to the protocol of 29 november 1996 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on the interpretation of the convention on the protection of the european communities' financial interests by the court of justice of the european communities by means of preliminary rulings and to the second protocol of 19 june 1997 drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on european union on the protection of the european communities' financial interests. the act of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced simplified arrangements for the accession of croatia to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by member states pursuant to article 34 teu (former article k.3 teu).
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the act of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced simplified arrangements for the accession of croatia to the conventions (and protocols) concluded by the member states. the report in question is procedural in that it sets the date on which those conventions enter into force for croatia and makes all the adjustments to those conventions which are necessary as a result of the accession of the new member state (which, in any event, will include the adoption of the conventions in the croatian language, so that those language versions are 'equally authentic'). we therefore voted in favour of it.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the act of accession of the republic of croatia of 2011 introduced simplified arrangements for the accession of croatia to the conventions concluded by the member states. article 3 of the act of accession provides that the council is to adopt a decision to fix the date on which those conventions enter into force for croatia. as it is the decision of the sovereign state of croatia to accede to the convention, we voted in favour of the rapporteur's report which argues that the commission's recommendation to the council to adopt a decision should be adopted in order to determine the date on which the conventions will enter into force for croatia.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and stress that the free choice of employment within the eu is an integral part of free movement as one of the four fundamental freedoms of the european union and therefore a key element of european union citizenship. especially in the light of the high unemployment in some regions of europe, the aim is to enhance labour mobility within the eu, improve employment opportunities for workers and provide help to employers to fill vacancies better and faster. this contributes to the development of a european labour market with a high level of employment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we have always maintained that the mobility of workers is not the solution to the problem of unemployment. social dumping and job insecurity are then promoted through such a practice. we believe that the migration of workers should be a matter of their free choice, from one safe working environment to another. the report was based on the above framework, but the trilogue ensured the increased participation of government departments in the platform, reducing the role of private employment agencies, but also the introduction of the social partners as partners in this platform. we consider it appropriate to vote in favour of the motion because we recognise the improvements we have made since the trilogue, but also because it is the right of everyone to move to find work.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the legislative proposal to modernise the european employment services network (eures), the pan-european database of jobseekers and vacancies. the free movement of workers in the eu would be a mere right if it were not accompanied by more substantial legislation which contributes, firstly, to the integration of the common labour market and, secondly, to facilitating access for european citizens to vacant and available jobs. the number of people working in a member state outside their country of origin is 7.5 million, or 3.1% of the working population. i therefore support this initiative which will make it easier to find work throughout the european territory by immediately notifying all available jobs.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the it is our constant position that the mobility of workers is not the solution to the problem of unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the migration of workers from one safe working environment to another must be a matter of their free choice. however, although the report was set in the above context, the trilogue ensured the increased participation of government departments in the platform, reducing the role of private employment agencies, but also the introduction of the social partners as partners in this platform. it is also essentially a job search platform. as a group, we cannot ignore this, nor can we ignore the right of everyone to move to find work. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of emergency autonomous trade measures to the republic of tunisia.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the regulation provides for an increase of imports of crude olive oil of 35,000 tonnes per year for the years 2016 and 2017. the tunisian economy has been hit over the years by both instability and terrorist attacks. it is perhaps one of the few countries in the region where stability is now observed and has not been plunged into the chaos that has plagued other countries in the region, such as neighbouring libya. however, the proposal to increase olive oil imports is creating problems and objections from countries, especially from the south, which believe that their own economy will be affected if imports of cheap olive oil from tunisia increase. although we are not big producers in cyprus, this will affect cypriot producers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the regulation provides for an increase of imports of crude olive oil of 35000 tonnes per year for the years 2016 and 2017. the tunisian economy has been hit by instability over the years, as well as by terrorist attacks. it is perhaps one of the few countries in the region where stability is now observed and has not been plunged into the chaos that has plagued other countries in the region such as neighbouring libya. however, the proposal to increase imports of olive oil is creating problems and objections from the countries, especially from the south, which believe that their own economy will be affected if imports of cheap olive oil from tunisia increase. although we are not big producers in cyprus, this will affect cypriot producers. that is why we voted against the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report on mobilising the european globalisation adjustment fund for belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in two enterprises operating in the hainaut and namur regions of belgium. the belgian authorities state that the dismissals are due to developments affecting the european, and in particular the belgian, glass industry in recent years, which have had a significant impact on the glass production sector in wallonia.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund has been set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in the pattern of world trade. we voted against the report because it proposes to mobilise the egf in favour of belgium to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in two undertakings active in the production of other non-metallic mineral products in the regions of hainaut and namur in belgium.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the unless there is a suspicion of corporate malpractice, we always vote for the global fund. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but the money from the fund goes to retraining programmes or to compensate laid-off workers, which we support. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and stress that the european union is today called upon to emerge from a long economic crisis which has had significant social consequences. at the same time, it faces a number of challenges, including the threat of terrorist attacks, the geopolitical instability of the neighbourhood and the unprecedented increase in asylum seekers. to ensure its political legitimacy, the european union must develop the means to meet these challenges.
in writing. ‒ our firm stance to overturn the european semester and austerity policies led us to vote against this report as well, which 'endorses the 2016 annual growth survey package and the proposed mix of policy investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility' but also calls for greater economic coordination, the correction of macroeconomic imbalances through the known anti-people neoliberal policies of austerity and memoranda and 'less national efforts in the substantive implementation of reforms.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the our firm stance to overturn the european semester and austerity policies led us to vote against this report as well, which 'endorses the 2016 annual growth survey package and the proposed mix of political investment, structural reforms and fiscal responsibility' but also calls for greater economic coordination, the correction of macroeconomic imbalances through the well-known anti-people neoliberal austerity policies and memoranda and 'low national efforts in the substantive implementation of reforms'.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and stress the need to invest in social development, which is not only a means to ensure sustainable and inclusive economic growth and convergence, but must also be an objective in itself. economic and social cohesion must remain the primary objective of all eu policies and more efforts should be made to provide a more complex and objective assessment based on the diversity of member states and their particular characteristics.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report supports from the beginning to the end the austerity policies promoted by the commission and the mainstream circles in brussels. it states that unemployment is falling, that the post-crisis situation has stabilised and that what is needed now is the continuation of the policies already in place. we voted against, as is the group's usual line when it comes to reports on the budget and the european semester.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report supports from the beginning to the end the austerity policies promoted by the commission and the mainstream circles in brussels. it states that unemployment is falling, that the post-crisis situation has stabilised and that what is needed now is the continuation of the policies already in place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that the single market is one of the foundations of the eu. in order to successfully promote economic growth and stabilise the economies of the member states, the european semester must cover both the single market and the policies aimed at its completion.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we have voted as a group against the whole package of the european semester, since our opposition to it is a common position of the parties in our group. we are also clear about the reasons why the dominant circles in the union are promoting the common market. the reasons are none other than the opening up of the market to large multinational groups and their competition on a global scale. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european semester, and the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the reasons are none other than the opening up of the market to large multinational groups and their competition on a global scale. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, considering that the deepening of euro-tunisian trade relations through the conclusion of an ambitious trade partnership should open up prospects for growth and convergence for the economies of tunisia and the european union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia sets out a framework with which we disagree. it promotes neoliberal policies, like all free trade negotiations, which help big business and not the ordinary citizen in tunisia. tunisia needs support, but not with the policies promoted by this report that are negatively affecting the people in tunisia. it seeks to put workers in the eu and tunisia in a "competition" with each other, resulting in wage restraint and the rollback of labour rights of those workers who enjoy them. we therefore consider it appropriate to vote against.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report on the opening of negotiations for a free trade agreement between the european union and tunisia sets out a framework with which we disagree. it promotes neoliberal policies, like all free trade negotiations, which help the big business on the rich side, not the ordinary citizen in tunisia. tunisia needs support, but not with the policies promoted by this report that negatively affect both the people in tunisia and the eu, trying to put eu and tunisian workers in a "competition" with each other, resulting in wage restraint and the rollback of labour rights of those workers who enjoy them. we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and congratulate emily o'reilly on her re-election as european ombudsman and on her excellent work.
gue/ngl), in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. however, two specific amendments which refer to key issues on which we are in complete disagreement (namely the reference to ttip and frontex) were voted down. we therefore voted against.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the european ombudsman carried out important inquiries during 2014, such as an inquiry into the lack of transparency in the ongoing negotiations on the ttip agreement. in addition, during 2014, the european ombudsman conducted research on key issues such as transparency in procedures within the eu institutions, fundamental rights, citizen participation in eu decision-making and eu-funded projects. the report on the activities of the european ombudsman, while welcoming the work done, contains some problematic references which we cannot accept. the commission also notes that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the future of the european union. the indirect support to frontex, and in particular to operations to deport refugees, is equally problematic. for the above reasons we abstained.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and recognise that the ecb, in reacting to a complex environment characterised by a sovereign debt crisis, falling inflation, credit crunch and sluggish economic growth, and with its interest rates nearing the lower bound of zero, has unfortunately also made wrong decisions on key issues. the report also contains positive elements and we therefore support it.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the it is our view that the neoliberal austerity policies implemented in the eurozone are inextricably linked to the democratic deficits of the euro structure. the ecb is part of the troika, and the banking union is taking more and more supervisory powers away from the national central banks, thus promoting the interests of the giant banks over the cooperative and the small banks that finance smes. the report also prevents debt restructuring and supports macroeconomic adjustment programmes. we voted against the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the it is our view that the neoliberal austerity policies implemented in the eurozone are inextricably linked to the democratic deficits of the euro structure. the ecb is part of the troika, and the banking union is taking more and more supervisory powers from the national central banks, thus promoting the interests of the giant banks over the cooperative and the small banks that finance smes. the report also prevents debt restructuring and supports macroeconomic adjustment programmes. we voted against the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and stress the importance of deepening relations between the eu and the asia-pacific region for economic development on both sides.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the motion for a resolution because of the extreme liberal approach it is based on and the fact that it does not take into account the possible negative consequences/impact that a possible free trade agreement would have on european dairy farmers, especially with new zealand which has a very competitive industry in the sector in question.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the free trade agreements are fully serving the interests of the eu's mainstream circles. they create interdependent relationships - economic and political - with their partners and promote extreme competition and investment to the benefit of big business and to the detriment of the interests of society and the people. we have therefore voted against the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the motion for a resolution, stressing that ngos, law enforcement agencies, competent authorities and veterinarians have evidence of an increasing illegal trade in pet animals, which shows widespread abuse of the pet movement regime, avoidance of controls and falsification of documents. we note that the abuse of the pet movement regime is now considered the third most lucrative illegal trade within the eu after drugs and weapons, while the illegal trade in pet animals is increasingly linked to serious and organised crime by non-governmental organisations, law enforcement agencies and competent authorities.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ pet smuggling is increasingly linked to organised crime and is a threat to public health. we therefore voted in favour of the request for the exchange of pet registration data at pan-european level, thus further strengthening the fight against the illegal trade in pet animals, which are often bred in an irrational way and pose a risk for the spread of diseases.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the unfortunately, according to official figures there is a growing illegal abuse of the pet transport system, which is being exploited for commercial purposes. the joint resolution put to the vote in plenary points out that many member states have compulsory systems for the identification and registration of pet animals and recognises that greater cooperation between member states is needed to limit the potential for document forgery and illegal trade, thereby improving the living conditions of animals and protecting public health. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the motion for a resolution and stress that the existence of a stable and secure yemen, with a well-functioning government, is vital for international efforts to combat extremism and violence in the region and beyond, as well as for peace and stability in yemen itself. we call on all parties to comply with international humanitarian law and international human rights law and to cooperate urgently with the un and humanitarian organizations to provide assistance to those in need.
in writing. ‒ the yemen has been in a long-running conflict, which intensified in 2015 when saudi arabia, as the head of a us-backed coalition, began bombing yemen, while imposing a near-total import embargo on the country. this situation has led to hunger and poverty for the people, while attacks on civilians, medical personnel and members of humanitarian organisations have caused huge loss of life. the conflict is yet another attempt by the us and its allies to maintain their geopolitical control and dominance in the region. the eu is also complicit in this crime, which, by tolerating the dictatorships in the region and its member states, which continue to export heavy defence equipment to saudi arabia, is contributing to the worsening of the conflict in the country. the serious deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen requires immediate humanitarian assistance, and we therefore consider that a vote in favour of the joint resolution is the appropriate course of action.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the joint resolution because the serious deterioration of the humanitarian situation in yemen requires immediate humanitarian assistance. the country is in the midst of a long-running confrontation between the houthis and the yemeni government, which intensified in 2015 when saudi arabia, as the head of a us-backed coalition, began bombing yemen while imposing a near-total import ban on the country. this situation has led to hunger and poverty for the people, while attacks on civilians, medical personnel and members of humanitarian organisations have caused huge loss of life. the conflict is yet another attempt by the us and its allies to maintain their geopolitical control and dominance in the region. the eu is also complicit in this crime, which, by tolerating the dictatorships in the region and its member states, which continue to export heavy defence equipment to saudi arabia, is contributing to the worsening of the conflict in the country. we condemn once again the attitude of the usa, its allies and the eu's ruling circles and call for immediate action to stop the humanitarian crisis in yemen.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. today, there is unfortunately a growing decline in the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products by children, as well as a growing incidence of childhood obesity. this is due, among other things, to consumer habits oriented towards highly processed foods. we therefore believe that the granting of parish grants to finance the provision of selected agricultural products to children attending educational institutions can make a significant contribution to the promotion of healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products. to the same end, member states may also adopt targeted measures to address the decline in milk consumption in the population. in addition, it is necessary to introduce support measures aimed at the distribution of those agricultural products in order to achieve the short-term and long-term objectives of increasing consumption and developing healthy diets.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of certain substances and mixtures is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this requires redefining the objectives and putting society's needs and interests at the centre. the european union must support member states to promote state subsidies and public investment to make full use of the new digital data. the aim should be to promote research, innovation and development, create new quality jobs, ensure free and open access to the internet, protect personal data and strengthen consumer rights. equally important is supporting smes to be able to use technology to strengthen their market position and facilitate their access to finance.
madam president, we are celebrating today and we all wish you a very happy international women's day, but the strong message we must send as the european parliament is that what we say today on this anniversary day we must as the european parliament put into practice and put into practice. i commend the initiative of the european parliament on this day to pay special tribute to the refugee woman, because we are all thinking at this moment of all those refugee women who are crowding into the fences of shame in order to save their lives and the lives of their children and families, of all those refugee women who are embarking on the long journey of life and death to escape the ravages of war; of all those women who are really fighting the battle to survive in the refugee camp. but at the same time, alongside these women, we must also honour the greek woman who, in the face of the walls of shame, erects a wall of human solidarity and dignity, supporting and helping the refugee woman in greece, in the idomeni, in the islands, from end to end. the european union has a duty to help the people of cyprus, and to help the people of cyprus to help themselves. the cyprus woman is the refugee woman of cyprus, the only european refugee woman, who for forty-two years has been fighting to return to her homes, fighting to have her human rights violated by the invasion and occupation enforced, fighting and hoping to be able to live as a human being again. it is the duty of the european parliament to honour the only european refugee woman, the woman from cyprus, and the mother who has been waiting for 42 years to find her missing child.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the despite many improvements, there are some problems related to the correct application of certain vague and legal terms such as 'humanitarian treatment' of animals. another problem is that stray pets are considered 'wild animals'. this concept can serve to reduce the legal protection of stray animals. dogs and cats should always be considered pets, whether or not they are stray, even if they are no longer under the direct control of humans. finally, one of the biggest problems was the very high number of proposed implementing and delegated acts, which made it difficult to foresee how the law could work in practice. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the the new regulation, which deals with the control of communicable diseases such as avian influenza and african swine fever, has a preventive role. this is because of the increased risk of transmission of these and other diseases and the parallel need to reduce the use of antibiotics in animals to reduce the risk of microbial resistance. the regulation will oblige member states to provide regular reports with full data on the frequency of use of these medicines, thus improving knowledge at european level. i am voting against the adoption of this regulation in order to establish the legal framework and rules governing the control and prevention of the transmission of animal diseases in accordance with the findings of modern scientific studies. the regulation should also be consistent with eu legislation on animal welfare and animal welfare. finally, the adoption of this regulation will lay the foundations for more prudent use of medicines and further improvement of livestock farming, with clear responsibility for those involved in this sector in case of non-compliance with the principles of good animal husbandry and responsible use of antibiotics in animals.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that in the current context of a continuous decline in the consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and dairy products, especially by children, and the increasing incidence of childhood obesity due to consumer habits oriented towards highly processed foods, the provision of district aid to finance the provision of selected agricultural products to children attending educational institutions can contribute to the promotion of healthy eating habits and the consumption of local products.
in writing. ‒ the although the objectives of the programme are commendable, they tend to be neutralized in a series of articles requiring the diversion of funds from the distribution of fruit and vegetables to advertising purposes. for example, article 23 (8) requires schools to disclose their participation in the scheme and the fact that it is eu-funded. although article 23a (8) states that member states may use any appropriate communication tools they wish (websites, posters, campaigns), articles 24 and 25 allow the commission to adopt delegated acts requiring schools to implement these actions. we believe that this creates a deficit procedure for using funds for a system that is already in operation and we therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution is a small part of the wider effort to promote healthy eating habits among children and young people by using local products that are not high in added harmful substances. the fight against childhood obesity, with all its consequences on the psycho-physical composition of children, should continue to be a priority for the union, given that the surveys carried out at national level are worrying in terms of its incidence and rate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the foodstuffs intended for human consumption. to be effective, this action should be accompanied by supporting educational measures to inform and understand the beneficial effect of proper nutrition on their health as well as continuous evaluation of this overall strategy for more targeted results. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. ‒ the i have supported a proposal for legislation to monitor the eating habits of children. as stated in the draft law, the member states should - as a general principle - promote healthy eating habits, local food, organic farming and the fight against food waste. this regulation strengthens and extends the previous regime for monitoring the eating habits of children in schools by adding further products of compulsory consumption. in particular, the list of products eligible for european funding is amended, giving priority to fresh and local products as opposed to processed foods such as soups, compost, juices, yoghurt and cheese. these foods will only be given in addition to fresh fruit, vegetables and milk or lactose-free milk. i can only support and support in the most positive way possible eu initiatives aimed at monitoring the eating habits of children.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which we believe can contribute to efforts to make the trans-european transport network (ten-t) more efficient, interconnected and sustainable, by creating a framework that will improve port efficiency and help to cope with changes in transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and operations and the creation of key conditions for attracting investment in ports. the aim is to offset weak competitive pressures and potential market abuse in order to increase the efficiency of port services.
in writing. ‒ the the aim of the proposal is to create a framework to improve the competitiveness of ports and to 'modernise' them in order to create the conditions necessary to attract investment and to achieve the liberalisation of port services. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the text improves the commission proposal in part by deleting proposals to ensure access to the market for port services, adding important references to the protection of labour rights and collective agreements and including positive references to the need to ensure the health and safety of workers. however, despite the positive reports, we do not think that we could have a positive view of this regulation. that's why we voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the the text improves the commission proposal in part by deleting most of the proposals on securing access to the market for port services, adding important references to the protection of labour rights and collective agreements and including positive references to the need to ensure the health and safety of workers. however, we cannot ignore the fact that many individual reforms are being promoted to reduce costs and increase competitiveness as a step towards the ultimate goal which is still the full liberalisation of port services. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear indication of the extent to which the commission is prepared to take part in the negotiations. we have voted against the text for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which establishes a single legal framework for the development, compilation and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hicps) at eu, national and sub-national level. hicps provide an inflation indicator which is used, inter alia, as a valuable source of information for the deflation of economic variables such as wages, rents and interest rates and which therefore forms the basis for economic and monetary policy decisions. it is therefore essential that those statistics are objective, unbiased and comparable across all member states and product sectors.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the indicators which determine the economic policies of each member state, as they can lower or raise the value of wages and social rights in the member states. the harmonization of the two means that one of the most important instruments of the budgetary policy of the state is transferred to the commission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not excluded from the market.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution upgrades the existing single european information system on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicps) and house prices (hicps). these indicators are an important means of information on inflation and related issues, which are of great importance for the economic and monetary policy of the union. this regulation has been in force since 1995 and needs to be updated to take account of new market developments in order to achieve more effective price comparability with the ultimate aim of achieving equal treatment of similar product categories. i am voting against this motion for a resolution because i believe that a new legal framework for the hicp is needed to reflect new developments in this field in order to integrate systems and prevent divergent national practices that undermine the provision of reliable statistical results. the resolution calls on the commission to submit a proposal to amend or replace the current regulation 2494/95 by including the impact of tax changes on inflation and providing preliminary estimates by member states on a monthly basis in order to better analyse them for more accurate results.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report on the grounds that it promotes the harmonization of consumer indicators. these are the indicators which determine the economic policies of each state since they can lower or raise the value of wages and social rights in the member states. the harmonization of the two means that one of the most important instruments of the budgetary policy of the state is transferred to the commission.
in writing. ‒ we support the report considering that member states have the primary responsibility for the collection of own resources, also stressing that the rationalisation of public spending and the protection of the eu's financial interests should be central elements of the eu's policy to strengthen citizens' confidence by ensuring the correct, effective and efficient use of their money.
in writing. ‒ the member states and the commission share responsibility for the implementation of about 80% of the union budget and member states are mainly responsible for collecting own resources, including in the form of vat and customs duties. the diversity of the legal and administrative systems of the member states presents a complexity which sometimes makes efforts to combat irregularities and fraud more difficult. the report, although flawed, is in the right context and proposes ways and means of strengthening this effort, which is why we voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the the protection of the confidence of european citizens through a clean and efficient system for the use of their money is a matter of paramount importance. the rational use of public expenditure is a prerequisite, and this can be achieved by regular checks on the performance of national systems, which unfortunately often differ in practice, making it difficult to detect irregularities and fraud. the protection of the eu's financial interests is an immediate objective, as is the fight against fraud, since corruption exists in all member states, hindering the smooth functioning of the system and reducing the eu's competitiveness in the global economy and market. the cultural impact and the attack on the principles of the rule of law, values which are the cornerstone of the eu, are equally notable. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has an important role to play in strengthening action to combat corruption and fraud. i am ignoring the findings and the changes proposed in the annual report because i consider it to be the duty of the member states to protect the financial interests of the union from criminal offences which have economic and moral consequences. this requires that member states cooperate directly with olaf and grant it further procedural rights to ensure the effective implementation of its recommendations.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for the creation of common indicators of fraud so that it is identified and recognised in the same way in all member states, while promoting minimal protection for whistle blowers. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ the we support the report, stressing that gender mainstreaming has become internationally accepted as a strategy for achieving gender equality. the integration of the gender dimension has two dimensions: the commission's proposal for a directive on the integration of the gender dimension in the content of various policies and the representation of women and men in the various policy areas is also included. both dimensions - gender representation and gender-sensitive content - must be taken into account at all stages of the policy-making process. structural inequalities between the sexes still exist in our society and gender-sensitive policies are therefore a crucial element of a sound gender equality strategy.
in writing. ‒ the the report stresses the need for gender dimension amendments, gender impact assessment and gender budgeting to mainstream the gender dimension in all policy areas. stresses the need for more cooperation between the various committees, which is essential, and calls on the high level group to submit a gender equality roadmap showing how to increase the representation of women in middle and senior management to 40% by 2020. to better integrate the gender dimension into all policy areas, the report proposed further development of gender mainstreaming tools such as gender dimension modifications. it also called on the commission to make gender impact assessments in new legislative or policy proposals to ensure the protection of women's rights. given that equality between men and women is recognised by the eu as a fundamental right, a common value of the eu and a necessary condition for achieving the eu's objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion, we believe that the report has made a positive contribution in this direction and therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution concerns the integration of the gender dimension in the various policies and the representation of men and women in the policy-making area with a view to promoting gender equality in the european parliament. although gender equality is now an undeniable right and value of the eu, it must be achieved not only by prohibition but also by positive measures to eliminate discrimination on grounds of sex. the parliament's committee on women's rights and gender equality (femm) is responsible for mainstreaming the gender dimension in the ep's political and legislative processes. there is also the network of meps responsible for promoting gender equality in the ep committees. despite the existence of these specific mobilizations, research has shown the lack of an action plan for the practical implementation of gender equality. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i am voting in favour of this resolution and welcome the proposals it contains, such as strengthening cooperation with national parliaments, more effective cooperation between femm and the network of members and the establishment of an appropriate framework for the effective integration of the gender dimension in the policies of the ep.
in writing. ‒ the the integration of the gender dimension in the preparation, design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies, regulatory measures and spending programmes, with a view to promoting equality between women and men and combating discrimination, is a positive development. the report proposes measures to strengthen and increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the existing gender mainstreaming structure. however, what is overlooked in the report is that gender equality cannot be understood in the context of the policies promoted by the eu on a daily basis. the report does suggest measures which may improve the parity issue to some extent, but unfortunately these proposals cannot coexist and be improved further in the long term because of the other measures being promoted by the eu. it is therefore pointless to talk about equal treatment for men and women if we do not at the same time fight for the strengthening of the rights of all people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the proposal contains important positive elements, but also a number of negative points. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ the the report argues that asylum policies and procedures, including the assessment of asylum applications, should be gender sensitive and is of the opinion that gender-based violence, such as rape, sexual violence, fgm, forced marriage, domestic violence, should be a valid reason to seek asylum in the eu. stresses the need to establish facilities which take account of lgbt people in all member states and underlines that violence against lgbt people is a common phenomenon in reception facilities; it therefore calls for a series of measures to be taken to ensure that women's needs are met throughout the asylum process. in view of the increasing number of women/refugees seeking asylum and protection, we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the the right to asylum is enshrined in article 18 of the charter of fundamental rights. the increased flows of refugees arriving at our borders demonstrate our duty to offer protection to these tortured people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to support the development of the regions concerned. the increased need for protection of women refugees is also reflected in the fact that a minority of asylum seekers are women and underage girls who face more risks than men, such as kidnapping and sexual abuse on their way to the eu. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. this blatant injustice must be addressed and addressed in a timely manner by ensuring safe and legal passage to the eu, as this resolution rightly points out; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. finally, the provision of psychosocial support to women victims of traumatic experiences is considered essential.
in writing. ‒ the the report calls for ensuring that asylum policies take account of the particular problems faced by women and the double exploitation they suffer. it also urged the member states to sign and ratify the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. equally important, it stresses the need for a common asylum system and a new, integrated set of gender equality guidelines in the context of wider reforms of migration and asylum policy. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
madam president, the european union has failed to manage the refugee crisis and continues to take wrong decisions which violate european and international law and the human rights of refugees. how many more refugees must die helplessly to stop the xenophobic racist approaches of certain european leaders such as those in the visegrad countries, who are closing borders, building fences and thus trapping refugees in inhuman conditions in greece. the council has come to discuss turkey's unacceptable demands and blackmail in order to avoid the member states' responsibility, even though the european union is responsible for the wars that have devastated the countries of refugees. the closure of the balkan corridor, nato in the aegean, which infringes the sovereign rights of states, and the repressive measures of frontex are killing the solidarity and the values of the union. stop the savagery! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. the refugee crisis must be met by strengthening the solidarity shown by the greek people. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, i would have signed this agreement if it had been about goods, if it had been about boxes or coffins. i'm honestly ashamed that human beings decided on human beings in this way. even the united nations issued a statement saying that it is a violation of human rights. why don't we give these three, six, nine billion - and i don't know how much it will be - to declare two cities inside syria as safe cities under the protection of the united nations, america and russia and rebuild two cities for these people to return to their homes? it's a little russian deal for turkey. i returned from diyarbakir the day before yesterday. we saw the closure of zaman newspaper, the persecution of a thousand academics and two hundred people trapped inside sur. we demand that there be a safe way and passage for these people to get out. and in the midst of all this, the following image yesterday: mr davutoglu giving roses to women journalists on women's day, as his country closes ... (the president cut off the speaker)
s & d) and the the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is clear and pernicious that europe is being blackmailed by mr erdogan's policies. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the convention, but the european parliament. the community's solidarity has long since been abandoned and it is only the national interest that is at work. fences are being erected and hundreds of innocent souls are still lost at sea, instead of dealing with the problem together as a family. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the union is in danger of breaking up, and this has allowed the eurosceptics within the walls to feel justified. we must decide immediately that we will accept all refugees who pass through legal land routes, so that we can deal with the inhumane phenomenon of trafficking by sea with its sad consequences.
the commission the european parliament, which represents the peoples, must speak clearly, without twists and without unintelligible theories and without ambiguities, both about refugees and about turkey. we must all recognize that refugees are not a purely european issue, not just a matter for the member states of the european union, but an international issue, and that other countries, internationally, must also support and support the european union in this effort to solve it. as for the promoters of catastrophism and euroscepticism who want and believe that the european union can be buried with refugees, i am convinced that europe can find solutions to this issue as well. for the turkey. what did turkey do all this way for the refugee? i would remind you that turkey was part of the problem, because its attitude and its behaviour and its policy in the region created the refugee problem. i should like to remind you that the previous agreement to restrict flows to greece was not only not respected, but increased the flows, and i should like to remind you that a country which is in the process of joining and which wants to speed up the accession process is behaving towards the european union as a crude, cynical blackmailer, putting the humanitarian issue in front of it and using it as a spear in order to serve its own interests and get rewards. i must remind you again that in this european union there are rules. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. the council must not allow the question of opening up turkey's capital to be brought to the table again if turkey does not implement the agreements with the european union, the ankara protocol and if it does not recognise the republic of cyprus. this must be the message to turkey and it must be respected to the end.
s&d), in writing. the eu-turkey relationship goes back years when in 2005 cyprus, with a third of its territory illegally occupied by turkey, gave turkey a date to start accession negotiations in the expectation that it would converge with european values and rules of law, aiming for a european solution in cyprus. since then, we as the eu have invested politically and financially in this expectation. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. my disappointment is not only that turkey still keeps its troops in cyprus. it is not just because turkey is ruled by a despotic islamist regime, or because the europeanisation of turkey has ultimately failed, that democracy is in the doldrums. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. turkey has submitted a blackmail proposal to take desperate refugees hostage, which would not be done even for animals. the european parliament has been very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia, and i am sure that the european parliament will be very active in the fight against racism and xenophobia. if the eu goes through with this deal, i don't want to be part of that crime.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report and note that the reduction of sulphur dioxide emissions from the combustion of certain liquid petroleum fuels is achieved by imposing sulphur content limits on these fuels as a condition for their use within the territory, territorial waters and exclusive economic zones or pollution control zones of the member states.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report is simply a codification of existing texts without any change in their substance. we therefore voted in favour of the report, adopting the position as adapted on the basis of the recommendations of the legal services advisory group.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the proposal is simply a codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. we therefore voted in favour of the report, adopting the position as adapted on the basis of the recommendations of the legal services advisory group.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which aims to avoid the diversion of trade in certain key pharmaceutical products to the european union
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the this report concerns a proposal for a european council regulation on the prevention of the diversion of certain basic pharmaceutical products. it fully respects the substance of the acts to be codified and therefore does nothing more than bring them into contact with only the formal amendments required by the codification process itself (some codifications are linked to the millennium goals to combat the aids pandemic). the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because of its nature. we are not opposed to a common wording for the labelling of essential medicines in the union, particularly those which fight incurable diseases or the aids virus.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report on the agreement signed by the european union and andorra on 12 february 2016 on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, which aims to improve international tax cooperation and compliance. the agreement is an important step in the ongoing efforts to crack down on tax fraud and tax evasion and upgrades the 2004 agreement which ensured that andorra applies measures equivalent to those provided for in an eu directive on the taxation of savings income.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report concerns an agreement between the eu and the principality of andorra on the taxation of interest income from savings. the report highlighted the positive aspects of the agreement, which will enable tax authorities on both sides to identify taxpayers more easily, to apply their tax laws more effectively in crossborder cases, to combat tax evasion more effectively and to coordinate their investigations into tax evasion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxation of the income of the selfemployed is not distorted.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxation of the income of the selfemployed is not distorted. the commission also welcomed the fact that the tax authorities of each side will now be able to identify taxpayers more easily, apply their tax laws more effectively in crossborder cases, fight tax evasion more effectively and finally coordinate their investigations into tax evasion cases.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report approving the appointment of fausto parente as executive director of eiopa.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the appointment of the new executive director of eiopa on the grounds that we are opposed to the logic of increasingly concentrating power in brussels.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the appointment of the new eiora executive director because we are opposed to the authorities concentrating ever greater powers in brussels.
in writing. ‒ we support the proposal and consider particularly important the following: the inalienable right to be assisted by a lawyer, which is inextricably linked to the right to benefit from legal aid; the right to an individual assessment; the arrangements for interrogation; the provision for the participation of minors in the proceedings; the provision for mandatory special training for judges, law enforcement authorities, prison authorities, lawyers and other persons who come into contact with minors in the course of their work; the provisions relating to deprivation of liberty, which dictate the application of provisional detention in custody only as a last resort, when it is impossible to take alternative measures, and that minors are safeguarded in any case if they are held in custody for reasons other than their own, unless an adult is intentionally detained.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report greatly enhances the process of protecting children accused of criminal offences. in particular, they ensure: (1) the right to information whereby children should be informed in a timely manner, in writing and orally, and in a simple language they understand, of the charges against them, the conduct of the trial and their rights; (2) the right to compulsory assistance by a lawyer; (3) the right to a medical examination; (4) the right to liberty (children may be deprived of their liberty only as a last resort, while ensuring in all cases that the child's human dignity and rights are respected while in detention); (5) the right of children to attend and participate in the trial and to have all necessary measures taken to enable them to participate fully, including the opportunity to be heard and to express their views. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the right to a fair trial is a fundamental right of every citizen, enshrined in the constitutions of almost all eu member states and protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights. the need for safeguarding is even more pressing in criminal cases involving the possibility of depriving a person of liberty, let alone when that person is a minor. procedural safeguards or procedural rules governing the judicial procedure form an integral part of this right. national justice systems should therefore ensure all guarantees of a fair and impartial trial, taking into account the special needs of such minors. the resolution rightly points out that there should be special juvenile courts, staffed by specially trained judges, with the state providing free legal aid directly to the arrested juvenile. special mention should be made of interrogation methods, which may not be the same as those used for adult suspects. finally, the measures imposed on minors should be of a reforming rather than punitive nature, taking into account the young person's psychological makeup. this requires the imposition of a prison sentence as a last resort and detention in special juvenile prisons.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i can only be positive and vote in favour of the proposed legislation which ensures the fairness of the judicial process for children who are suspected or accused of a crime. this legislative framework is an important guarantee of the protection of children's rights in the context of judicial proceedings. the specific arrangements fill a gap in many member states, including my own, where there does not seem to be an adequate written legislative framework for the care and protection of the rights of minors. the directive, in short, guarantees a common european standard of fair trial for minors and its content cannot but be accepted by me.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the unfortunately, the rights of minors at the various stages of the procedure are not sufficiently guaranteed today, hence the cases of conviction of states by the european court of human rights. the proposal for a directive on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings contributes to strengthening the procedural rights of children. the aim of the report is to promote the rights of minors on the basis of a justice system which takes account of the specific needs of children. the aim is to establish a limited but comprehensive list of the rights of minors who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings (or subject to european arrest warrant proceedings) on the basis of a structured set of 'minimum standards', interlinked and adapted to the specific needs of minors throughout the proceedings. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and note that the union budget has proved to be a key instrument in responding to recent crises and needs that were not necessarily foreseen when the mff 2014-2020 was negotiated, such as the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the migration and refugee crisis or geopolitical tensions in the european neighbourhood, which are causing serious challenges and emergencies, at a time when the eu's economic recovery and investment levels are lagging behind the potential while the investment gap persists.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ our position on the budget is stable, as long as it remains the same philosophy. we are voting against it because it expresses the union's neoliberal economic policies of severe austerity. the political orientations are again in line with the austerity policies of the 2014-2020 mff and are determined by the neoliberal and conservative ruling circles of the union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ our position on the budget is firm. we always vote against it because it expresses the neoliberal economic policies of harsh austerity of the union. the political guidelines are again in line with the austerity policies of the 2014-2020 mff and are set by the neoliberal and conservative ruling circles of the union with the agreement of the group of socialists and democrats. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we reject the report and welcome the agreement reached between the institutions. it is a good basis for developing a new, more frank and transparent relationship between them with a view to improving legislation for the benefit of the citizens of the union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the despite the renaming and reformulation, the agreement is still an extension of the programme already in force. therefore, there is an overemphasis on 'excessive regulation and administrative burdens' throughout the text rather than on 'quality in regulation'. we believe that the democratic process is not sufficiently safeguarded in the report, that the impact assessments proposed must be broad and balanced and that there is a need for quality regulation rather than deregulation. we therefore abstained.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the we have made many efforts in the past to adapt and revise the 2003 interinstitutional agreement between the commission, the council and parliament on better lawmaking in order to bring it into line with new practices. issues that need to be addressed include the quality of the commission's draft legislation, programming, more detailed impact assessments of draft laws, a better balance between the two legislative bodies of the union, better access to information and a more extensive examination of parliament's proposals, together with full justification for any rejection or withdrawal. i therefore believe that the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement will lay the foundations for better and more effective cooperation between the institutions and will have the ultimate beneficial consequence of upgrading the legislative process in the interests of european citizens. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a step in the right direction. finally, the main objective of the new interinstitutional agreement will be to improve the legislative process by ensuring that the rules of law are properly applied, by providing the relevant bodies with more information and by improving the efficiency and transparency of cooperation between the three institutions.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the attempt to improve legislation (refit) is a process which our group has repeatedly expressed its opposition to, because instead of better legislation the commission is moving in the direction of reducing legislation for businesses. this is driving downward pressure on wages and social rights, at the same time as taxation of large enterprises is being reduced. the procedure for adopting the report also did not provide for any right to amend it, which is completely undemocratic. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ there were different approaches to this report, and there was ambiguity. the proposal contains important positive elements, but it also contains a number of negative points.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the smuggling of tobacco products, in particular the smuggling and counterfeiting of cigarettes, causes the eu and its member states to lose revenues (in terms of customs duties, vat and excise duties) of more than eur 10 billion per year. the resolution we voted for calls for the agreement on combating cigarette smuggling and counterfeiting with pmi, which expires in july 2016, not to be renewed. instead, we call on the eu to focus on the international legislative instruments available to combat smuggling.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the joint resolution on smuggling of tobacco products calling for the non-renewal of the agreement to combat smuggling of cigarettes and counterfeiting of tobacco products with philip morris international (pmi), which expires in july 2016. the big tobacco companies should let the state take its role in fighting smuggling, since there are already wto rules on which states can rely.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, i am following the debate and i am really sorry that the european parliament, which is practically a herald of democracy and legality, instead of respecting the decisions of the united nations concerning the nomenclature of skopje, insists that the correct name of fyrom should be replaced by 'macedonia'. what tito failed to achieve after the second world war, which was to create a new nation and to share greek symbols and the greek name, we in the european parliament are trying to impose, as we have done throughout history, a name that is purely greek. macedonia is greek culture, greek name, greek history. we want to impose it voluntarily and in this way justify titus, who failed to do so when he tried to impose it. (the president cut the speaker off) )
gue/ngl), in writing. the report fails to reflect the real situation for the country. the rewarding of the fyrom authorities acts as a brake on the real progress of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. it is unacceptable that the fyrom should be denied a 'reliable partner' while it is taking reprehensible unilateral actions such as closing its borders and using force against refugees. fyrom should be called upon to respect international treaties on refugees and guarantee safe and permanent transit for all people in need of international protection, regardless of their origin. in addition, it must finally be accepted by all that the issue of relations between greece and fyrom is neither a bilateral issue nor limited to nomenclature. it is an international and regional problem which cannot be solved and must be resolved under the auspices of the un. the resolution of the conflict is a prerequisite for good neighbourly relations, which are an essential element in the enlargement process with decisive implications for regional peace. it is clear that the eu, in order to promote the euro-atlantic integration of fyrom in order to serve its energy interests, is prepared to repudiate itself once again and to abolish the principles it invokes. that's why we voted against it.
s & d) and the i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this important report. i will begin by saying that before i got into politics i had heard that in the european union we have common rules, but many times these common rules are not unbiased, and that is what we are facing now. when the banking union was first conceived, commissioner, it made sense and will make sense if it includes all three pillars and, of course, the guarantee of deposits. i remember when you were appointed and we had this conversation. without the third pillar the union is not only lacking, it is biased against small banks and small member states. the depositors must be given the same treatment, which they are not, the banks must be given the same opportunities, which they are not, so the longer it takes, the more risks there are.
in writing. ‒ we support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of emergency autonomous trade measures to the republic of tunisia.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the regulation provides for an increase of imports of crude olive oil of 35000 tonnes per year for the years 2016 and 2017. the tunisian economy has been hit by instability and terrorist attacks over the years. it is perhaps one of the few countries in the region where stability is now observed and has not been plunged into the chaos that has plagued other countries in the region, such as neighbouring libya. however, the proposal to increase imports of olive oil is creating problems and objections from the countries, especially from the south, which believe that their own economy will be affected if imports of cheap olive oil from tunisia increase. although we are not big producers in cyprus, this will affect cypriot producers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the regulation provides for an increase of imports of crude olive oil of 35000 tonnes per year for the years 2016 and 2017. tunisia needs it and its economy has been hit over the years by both instability and terrorist attacks. it is perhaps one of the few countries in the region where stability is now evident and which has not been plunged into the chaos that has plagued other countries in the region such as neighbouring libya. however, the proposal to increase imports of olive oil is creating problems and objections from the countries, especially from the south, who believe that their own economy will be affected if imports of cheap olive oil from tunisia increase. although we are not big producers in cyprus, this will affect cypriot producers. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report on the licensing, manufacture, marketing, distribution, safety of medicines and the use of veterinary medicinal products.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the over time it has become clear that the needs of the veterinary sector differ significantly from those of the human sector in relation to medicines. for example, the price-setting mechanisms in the veterinary sector follow a completely different logic. therefore, prices for veterinary medicinal products are usually significantly lower than for medicinal products intended for human use. we voted against the report as it proposes measures to address such problems as (a) the lack of availability of veterinary medicinal products, (b) administrative burdens, (c) reduced competitiveness and innovation and (d) the public health risk of antimicrobial resistance (amr).
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the recent commission proposal for a new regulation on veterinary medicinal products completely revises the existing legislation (directives 2001/82/ec and ec 726/2004). the new regulation will regulate the whole process of manufacturing, licensing, marketing, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products by the parties concerned. the need for a modern regulatory framework reflecting the specific needs of the veterinary sector at european and national level led me to vote in favour of this initiative. the commission's proposal aims to improve access to veterinary medicines, even for smaller markets, which i consider desirable and necessary, and this is something that should be given special consideration and will help to increase the availability of these products in general by reducing the administrative burden of their distribution. it also aims to promote and enhance the competitiveness and innovation of the veterinary medicines market by providing incentives for new ideas and improving the quality of existing medicines. particular attention should be paid to the issue of antibiotics, in particular the setting of conditions for their authorisation and the prohibition of their distribution via the internet. the protection of the environment is, after all, the guiding principle behind all this.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report clearly defines the conditions under which antibiotics may be prescribed and sold. we voted against the report because the market for veterinary medicines must be separated from the market for medicines for human use, but at the same time the health of the animals themselves must be safeguarded by the use of medicines and antibiotics, without the use of genetically modified organisms. it is important that the rules on medicinal products for human use and the rules on veterinary medicinal products agree on this point.
in writing. ‒ we support the report on the establishment of community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and the establishment of a european medicines agency.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and expect that the benefits of a data-driven economy at national and european level will have an impact on society and on every type of business at all levels of the value chain.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because of the emphasis it placed on the need to increase the participation of society in the digital economy. in particular, the report proposes actions aimed at raising public awareness and encouraging public debate in the member states as well as at european and international level on the issue of the benefits of digital technologies and their value (in particular among groups of those who do not yet have access to or are not yet familiar with digital technologies). it also calls for initiatives to enable citizens to make use of their data, in particular in the development of new innovative services, and to raise public awareness of the benefits and value of big data for society.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the use of new digital data must be geared primarily to the well-being and enhancement of people's quality of life. unfortunately, with the objectives set out in the report, there is a danger that the potential of technology will only serve the interests of multinationals and big business to increase competitiveness and business profits. we are not against technological development, but we must redefine our objectives and put society's needs and interests first. the aim should be to promote research, innovation and development, create new quality jobs, ensure free and open access to the internet, protect personal data and strengthen consumer rights. equally important is supporting smes to be able to use technology to strengthen their market position and facilitate their access to finance. the commission's proposals are aimed at improving the quality of life of the citizens of the union, and at improving the quality of life of the citizens of the union. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject.
in writing. ‒ we support the report which stresses that priority must be given to addressing the justice gap, democratic governance and restoring the rule of law, ending authoritarian rule exercised through fear of indefinite conscription, arbitrary detention in solitary confinement, torture and other human rights violations. respect for human rights is a core value of the eu's external policy and overall approach to the horn of africa and should therefore be regularly included in the dialogue with eritrea.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the resolution on eritrea because it contains important provisions aimed at ensuring and protecting human rights in the country. in particular, it calls on the country to sign, ratify and immediately implement the united nations convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and to fully comply with its obligations under the international covenant on civil and political rights and the african charter on human and peoples' rights, both of which prohibit torture. it also called for an end to all arbitrary arrests, enforced disappearances and indefinite detentions without charge or trial. it also recommends ending the practice of indefinite military service and limiting service to 18 months for all current and future conscripts over the age of 18, and requests that provision be made for conscientious objectors. it also expressed grave concern at the extremely high number of eritrean refugees attempting to cross the mediterranean to europe and considered that the undemocratic and totalitarian regime in eritrea was the main cause of this situation.
in writing. ‒ we oppose the report and recall that accession negotiations can only start after the nomenclature issue has been resolved.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report refers to macedonia as a reliable partner, while condemning unilateral actions such as the closure of borders and the use of force against refugees. the eu should also ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the dprk, and that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by the dprk. in addition, the issue of greek-macedonian relations is neither a bilateral issue nor limited to nomenclature. it is an international and regional problem which cannot be solved and must be resolved under the auspices of the un. the resolution of the conflict is a prerequisite for good neighbourly relations, which are a key element in the enlargement process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the report on montenegro and welcome the steady progress of the accession negotiations with montenegro. it is noted that 22 trading chapters have been opened so far, including chapters 23 and 24, while two of them have been temporarily closed. however, we stress that progress in the negotiations must be accompanied by the rigorous implementation of relevant action plans and strategies, and that overall progress in the negotiations depends on progress in the implementation of the rule of law and on the recording of visible achievements in this regard.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the as a group we support the accession process of montenegro, but we are critical of the report's insistence on linking the eu accession process with that of nato. we consider each procedure to be independent. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we believe that this process is, on the contrary, militarizing and creating further destabilization in the western balkans region and in the country itself. we also disagree with the privatisation policies promoted through the accession process and the social problems that accompany these policies. these economic models have been proven to have so adversely affected the peoples of europe that we do not need to impose them on the states that are now seeking to join the union. for these reasons we have taken a position of abstention.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and recall that, together with the esm and the emi, a genuine it should be able to provide a uniform and high level of protection for deposits, regardless of their geographical location.
the committee on foreign affairs and security adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. the title of the report, mr president, refers to the mediterranean, but the refugee crisis has reached such proportions that we must speak of a holistic approach to migration on the part of the european union, based on solidarity and full respect for the fundamental rights, principles and values of the european union. the reasons why someone decides to leave their home are wars, terrorism, insecurity, poverty, hunger. we must take as an example the participation of european union countries in the deregulation of our flammable neighbours, which is leading to huge flows of migrants, refugees and displaced persons. europe must be a force for peace and stability in its neighbourhood. the countries receiving the largest flows of migrants need support and there must be a fair sharing of responsibility. europe was imagined as the promised land for migrants and refugees, but now only the images of the eidomenis or the reception centres turned into detention centres cause shame. we must stop building walls at the internal borders of the european union and replace the disorganized, irregular and dangerous flows of migrants with organized, safe and legal routes to europe.
the commission i would like to remind you, mr president, commissioner, that european citizens, including refugees, have been living in the european union for years in miserable conditions, without any support, and yet they warmly embrace the refugees who are arriving in europe today. the immigration is developing into a tsunami ready to engulf europe and is not being dealt with with repressive measures. we must implement a comprehensive policy based on mutual benefit, on the development of the people who are suffering, on peace in the war zones. we need solidarity between member states, a proper asylum system, a proper immigration policy, a fair sharing of the burden. today, greece is facing the biggest problem, but the republic of cyprus is also becoming the new target of turkey, which has begun to channel the poor refugees to get blackmailing bargains from the european union, which rewards it with capital injections.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with the refugee crisis, as the report rightly points out, requires practical solidarity. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the transport of dangerous goods. unfortunately, however, the report also provides the basis for the inhumane military operations, nato's involvement in the aegean and the strengthening of border controls that are turning europe into a fortress and perpetuating crime against refugees. we are also opposed to the call for the implementation of the eu-turkey action plan, which aims to rid the union of refugees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. with these policies, the union's responsibilities for the military interventions that triggered the crisis are dramatically increased. we demand an end to crime and immediate support for the member states which are receiving the largest waves of refugees. the european union has come to maintain hot spots as concentration camps and to violate the human rights of refugees itself.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report on the codification and recasting of the market access regulation governing imports of products from certain acp countries (africa, caribbean and pacific). this temporary instrument provides duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in the least developed countries (ldcs). the purpose of codification is to ensure transparency, clarity and simplification in eu legislation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report may be technical in nature, since it is a codification of earlier decisions. however, because it concerns economic partnership agreements and because of our negative position on these agreements, we consider this abstention to be more appropriate.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i consider that the commission proposal concerning the amendment of the current regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 concerning imports of products from countries that are members of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states is necessary in order to bring it into line with the recent economic partnership agreements aimed at continuing and enhancing the free access of less developed third countries to the union market. the proposed amendments do not alter the substance of the non-amendable provisions of the regulation. the provisions are only reworded and some other articles are amended, such as article 3 which will now allow the commission to adopt acts on the import regime for products from acp countries, acts which will be in line with the corresponding provisions of the economic partnership agreement of 15 july 2014. the aim of the proposal is to ensure greater transparency and clarity and to simplify european legislation in this area.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report is a codification of decisions taken under the so-called 'market access regulation' (mar), which governs imports of products from certain acp countries. however, because of the nature of the economic partnership agreements which work against the interests of the peoples, we abstained.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report as we believe that the new protocol is consistent with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement and strengthens cooperation between the union and greenland. it shall promote a partnership framework within which a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources can be developed in the greenland fishing zone. this is in the interest of both parties.
in writing. ‒ the report is essentially a renewal of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the two parties, denmark and greenland. the new protocol, as the previous one expired on 31 december 2015, is in line with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement, strengthens cooperation between the eu and greenland and promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ the the protocol is a renewal of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the two parties, denmark and greenland. the current protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement expired on 31 december 2015. following the conclusion of those negotiations, a new protocol was initialled on 20 march 2015. the new protocol is consistent with the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreement, strengthens cooperation between the union and greenland and promotes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the greenland fishing zone in the interests of both parties. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the agreement, recalling that international air links between member states and third countries are traditionally defined by bilateral agreements in the field of air services. however, there are issues, such as competition, where compliance with european union law should be ensured by amending or supplementing existing provisions in bilateral air transport agreements between member states and third countries.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we supported the report referred to in the eu-macao agreement on certain aspects of air transport. the agreement is the result of negotiations between the eu, through the commission, and the macao authorities of china and replaces certain provisions in existing bilateral air transport agreements.
in writing. ‒ the we support the report, since the fixing of minimum rates in the field of vat is justified by the fact that in crossborder purchases and distance sales below a threshold the vat of the place of origin and not of the place of destination is still applicable. the application of a minimum standard rate in all member states as is currently the case is therefore a useful guarantee for the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the report sets the minimum vat rate for the euro area member states, which is prohibited from falling below 15%. this clause is renewed every year. we are in favour of a common vat rate, and the level of vat is therefore secondary. for these reasons we have abstained.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report on the proposed approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil. there is a clear operational need for europol to cooperate with brazil. according to europol, brazil is becoming increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, such as facilitating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, drug-related crime and credit card fraud, as well as other activities related to cybercrime. moreover, as with other major sporting events, the 2016 olympic games are expected to increase crime. the conclusion of the strategic cooperation agreement with brazil will help and strengthen the fight against organised crime and contribute to improving cooperation in the field of international law enforcement.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ as with previous europol cooperation agreements, we voted against as there is already a new europol regulation which will be voted on shortly and therefore we thought it appropriate to wait for the new cooperation agreement rather than sign the existing one (which was concluded under the old one) which contained less stringent procedures for the operation of europol.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the conclusion of international cooperation agreements with third states or international organisations requires the approval of the council, after consulting the european parliament. one category of such agreements is operational cooperation agreements, but these often involve the controversial issue of the exchange of personal data. the present proposal for a strategic agreement between europol and brazil is, in my view, desirable because it does not allow the exchange of personal data in principle, but only of specialised material such as reports, strategic analyses and methods of crime prevention. i would like to support this resolution in view of europol's position on the growing importance of brazil in the fight against organised crime (trafficking in human beings, drugs, cybercrime, etc.) and terrorism. the forthcoming olympic games are another reason for concluding a strategic cooperation agreement with brazil, since there is an increase in crime in such sports organisations.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the this proposal concerns the approval of a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and brazil. such agreements shall involve the exchange of operational, strategic, technical or classified information. the operational cooperation agreement also includes the exchange of data. we have serious concerns about such agreements, as they provide for strong monitoring mechanisms and risk the suspension of basic civil and political rights and the infringement of democratic freedoms. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report on the waiver of the colleague's immunity.
in writing. ‒ having regard to the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of hermann winkler, forwarded on 25 september 2015 by the leipzig public prosecutor's office in connection with a preliminary examination concerning a road accident, and announced in plenary on 14 december 2015, we voted in favour of the request.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as marine activities are developing and multiplying at a rapid pace, and therefore the pressure for sustainability and conservation of marine biodiversity is constantly increasing.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report focuses on the need to enhance and conserve marine biodiversity and sustainable use, while recognising the risks and negative impacts on the global marine environment caused by the rapid development and expansion of marine activities (industrial fishing, offshore drilling, shipping, etc.). the report also takes into account that some 64% of the sea, mainly the high seas and the deep sea bed, are areas outside the national jurisdiction of states and governed by international law and are therefore of paramount importance as these areas are better protected under international law. finally, there is also another important explicit reference to the right of each country to benefit from the conservation and sustainable use of its resources, particularly in the context of blue growth. in view of the above we have voted in favour of the report .
s&d), in writing. ‒ the marine biodiversity in areas outside national jurisdiction is at serious risk of pollution in the absence of an organised effort to protect it by the international community. fortunately, the un very early on emphasized the importance of protecting it, and so today, there is international acceptance of the issue promoted through international legal texts. despite the declarations, the un should give priority to the issue with activities that implement this objective. in this context, the un fish stocks agreement (unsfa 1995), which is an implementing agreement to the previous united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos 1982), establishes the necessary legal regime. the most recent efforts are focused on the drafting of a new text, which is a strict international law and therefore binding on the participating states with immediate implementing measures and is expected to be ready in 2017. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not excluded from the scope of the regulation. finally, as regards technical issues, it is important to have a mechanism to monitor the compliance of the contracting parties and the efficiency of this mechanism.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the legal regime for the law of the sea and the conservation of biodiversity in areas beyond national jurisdiction, recognising the need for an international approach to manage pollution and the growing risks to marine biodiversity. the conservation of biodiversity in areas outside the framework of the law of the sea is an urgent need in the light of the rapid changes in the fishing industry worldwide. this report raises a serious issue, which is also primarily environmental, and aims to preserve marine biodiversity. the importance of the eu's blue growth strategy to support the growth of economic activities at sea is also highlighted.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the fisheries aspects to be included in the un convention on the law of the sea include mainly the conservation of biodiversity. parliament was asked to give its opinion on this development and despite some negative reports we decided to support the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species, and that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the the rearing of food-producing animals of proven high genetic quality not only contributes to the economic and social development of the region in which they are reared, but also constitutes one of the pillars of food security in the union. the european commission has decided to consolidate all the directives on zootechnical legislation for various species into one directive. the commission is proposing a harmonised structure for animal breeding which will have a major impact on the field of animal genetics in europe. we are in favour of this general approach.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report has brought together all the directives relating to zootechnical legislation for different species into a single legislation. it is a step forward for animal husbandry in the eu, and as an updated legislation it is also one of the pillars of the eu food security system. the result of the trilogue is much better than the commission's original proposal. it harmonises the structure of the eu breeding industry with an impact on animal genetics in the eu, while also enhancing the conservation of purebred diversity and the protection of endangered local and rare european breeds. for these reasons, we voted in favour.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report makes very important references to the need to protect genetic diversity and the production of regional products of typical quality and the importance of taking animal health and welfare into account. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support this important report. the need to deal with the influx of migrants into europe is undeniable. this can only be achieved through a coordinated approach based on solidarity and responsibility, supported by common means.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the situation in the mediterranean is perhaps one of the greatest problems facing the eu and humanity as a whole today. the report contains important positive references, which we have emphasized on many occasions. the need for practical solidarity, the reference to the failure of the dublin regulation and the call for legal and safe routes, the sharing of responsibilities between member states and the protection of the rights of refugees are some of these. the report, however, follows the same path, supporting nato's involvement in the aegean, the strengthening of border controls that make europe a fortress and support crime against refugees. the european union has a duty to ensure that the turkish authorities are not forced to accept the terms of the agreement. for these reasons we consider this abstinence to be appropriate.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the it is clear that the piecemeal efforts of various non-governmental organizations are unable to deal with one of the greatest crises facing humanity today. according to frontex data for 2015, 1,83 million people were detected trying to cross the eu border illegally, compared to 282000 who arrived at the union border in 2014. in parallel, 1.4 million asylum applications were submitted in 2015 according to the easo. most tragic of all, the death toll stands at 3,771 for 2015. finally, 10000 unaccompanied children disappeared after arriving in the union in the same year. the above figures leave no room for contradiction and show the eu's duty to take immediate action to address the problem. these measures must be part of a coordinated wider policy, inspired by a spirit of solidarity between member states, to provide effective assistance to countries receiving increased flows of refugees at their borders. this holistic approach to the refugee crisis should also include a radical revision of the dublin ii regulation in favour of a centralised european system of fair and equitable distribution of applicants among member states according to their reception capacity.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report makes important positive references to the need for practical solidarity, the failure of the dublin regulation and the call for legal and safe routes, the sharing of responsibilities between member states and the protection of the rights of refugees. unfortunately, however, the report also provides the basis for the inhumane military operations, the involvement of nato in the aegean, and the strengthening of border controls that make europe a fortress and support crime against refugees. the call for the implementation of the eu-turkey action plan, an agreement which even the united nations has denounced as a violation of international law, is equally negative. for these reasons we abstained.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and welcome the closer involvement and more active involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process in recent years, which has led to increased awareness of the principles on which the eu is founded, including the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the interinstitutional context. we note, however, that much remains to be done in this field.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report's positive aspects are the recognition of subsidiarity and proportionality as basic principles for the functioning of the eu and the need for greater involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process (while underlining the protection of the union's exclusive competences). in this context, one of the proposals in the report is to strengthen the national parliaments even further in the legislative process. however, there is no criticism of the content of eu initiatives/proposals/legislation, especially as regards the negative economic impact they have/could have on european citizens. that's why we held abstinence.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are indisputably fundamental principles of the union, enshrined in article 5 of the eu treaty. all european legislation must be consistent with these principles, which strengthen the legal basis and the legality of the union's legislative process. while i welcome the efforts made in recent years to implement the two principles in the union's policies, i would like to stress the need to further strengthen the mechanism for monitoring their implementation through effective cooperation between the european and national legislative bodies. the resolution also provides for dialogue with the member states at the initial stage of any legislative procedure and for the reasoned opinions of national parliaments to be taken into account, which have the first say on matters not falling within the union's exclusive competence. however, there are no further significant means of monitoring the principle of subsidiarity, nor of monitoring the consequences of its non-observance in the legislative negotiations with the states. the principle of subsidiarity, along with the principle of proportionality, whereby the means used are proportionate to the purpose served, are the key guarantees of the legality of the union's legislative process, and that is why i am voting against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and call on the commission, in view of the serious and persistent problems encountered in the application of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 on nutrition and health claims made on foods, including problems of distortion of competition, to review the scientific basis of that regulation, its usefulness and its realistic nature, and to delete, where appropriate, the concept of nutritional characteristics.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the refit is a european commission programme aimed at improving the adequacy and efficiency of regulatory provisions by taking measures to simplify eu legislation and reduce regulatory costs, so that there is a clear, stable and predictable regulatory framework that is favourable to growth and employment. the report placed particular emphasis on encouraging a more 'federalist approach' by arguing that a single eu law could replace national laws/laws with added value and added value and on supporting the so-called 'sme first approach' for small and medium-sized enterprises. the fact that the latter approach for small and mediumsized enterprises was reinforced by an amendment of our group (the amendment stressed that such an approach should in no way be detrimental to the rights of workers) pushed us towards abstention.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and consider that improving single market legislation is a shared responsibility of all the institutions of the european union. this is the concept that must frame the way in which the european union seeks to improve legislation for the single market.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ although the report contains a number of positive references (protection of workers and better use of existing european structures), a number of amendments tabled by our group to substantially improve the text were rejected. therefore, we abstained.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the benefits of the single market are undeniable and should therefore be protected and strengthened through european legislation. it is therefore a common responsibility of all of us who are part of the legislative process to continually strive for its improvement. all the union's institutions can, through proper and effective cooperation, improve these policies while applying the principle of subsidiarity. this is coupled with appropriate checks that the measures imposed are implemented by the member states. the secondary rules are also part of the legislation, which are an equally important part of the legislation and should not be sidelined by the participants. the aim should be to achieve a competitive regulatory environment within the eu, while taking account of the needs of businesses and promoting employment, production and innovation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. however, i am voting against this resolution because i believe that there is a need for a better balance between the present weak legislation and the different privileges enjoyed by the member states, while taking into account the important rules for the protection of workers, consumers and the environment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report contains many positive elements, in particular in terms of addressing issues such as racism, multiculturalism, tolerance, awareness and understanding of other cultures, and democratic values and human rights. however, the concept of the european dimension in education as raised in the report is rather complex and unclear. therefore, many points in this report are controversial such as the fact that it acknowledges the democratic deficit and the existence of inequalities between and within member states, but makes no specific criticism of the current european policies and practices that have created these realities. it therefore deliberately gives the wrong impression that if citizens are better informed about the eu, then their lives will automatically improve. the structures and practices of the eu and its institutions are not in question here. the european commission is also given a full mandate to interpret the broad concept of the european dimension in education (from the design and implementation of the framework to the identification of best practices of the european dimension in education and private sector/business participation). that is why we voted against.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress the growing importance of the european dimension in different disciplines, levels and types of education, while stressing the need for a broad and deep understanding of the concept that takes into account its complex, dynamic and multi-layered nature, with eu learning in school as the central component.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the education is an important tool in educating and informing eu young people, making them active citizens in today's multicultural and complex societies. in view of the contemporary challenges facing the eu, mainstreaming eu curricula in schools can help to restore european citizens' confidence in the union and in the common european vision. the right information for citizens from a young age can reduce the current indifference and alienation towards the functioning of the eu and the phenomenon of euroscepticism. the need for action in the field of education is urgent, as 44% of european citizens feel they have a limited understanding of how the eu works and 52% believe their opinion does not matter, according to a 2014 eurobarometer survey. learning the different aspects of the eu in schools, which include not only economic policy issues but also the social and cultural opportunities the union offers young people, will therefore help to better and more fully understand the principles and values of the eu, such as peaceful coexistence, solidarity and respect for human rights.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report drawn up by the committee on culture and education on the promotion and learning of eu actions in the education systems of the member states and the call by the latter on the eu commission to take a legislative initiative on this matter immediately. the report makes it clear that the eu is going through a period of crisis in terms of its democratic legitimacy, not only because of the lack of knowledge of eu mechanisms among european citizens, but also because of the limitations on their participation in decision-making processes. in an era of intense euroscepticism, the introduction of a more european dimension in education can be a decisive factor in maintaining the cohesion of the eu. the updating of education systems and the adoption of a more european approach to them will also make a decisive contribution to the process of further integration of the union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report made several positive references to tackling racism and the need to respect and promote human rights. however, the concept of the european dimension in education as it arises is unclear. many of the reports are controversial. for example, while acknowledging the democratic deficit and the existence of inequalities between and within member states, there is no criticism of the european policies and practices that have created these realities. the attempt to link education with employability and to establish a partnership with the private sector is also particularly negative. nor is there any mention of human rights violations in the eu. unfortunately, a number of amendments tabled by the group of the european united left to improve the text were rejected. we therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and note that the adoption of the erasmus+ programme to replace the various previous programmes has been a significant development for the concept of mobility throughout the european higher education area.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report emphasises encouraging and facilitating access to education/training for pupils with a view to enhancing their mobility, and also includes actions aimed at removing cultural barriers and supporting foreign language learning. all disadvantaged groups and people with disabilities should be effectively included in information meetings and preparation. the report also stresses the need to strengthen the recognition of qualifications, certificates and informal learning, and the importance of ensuring a strong learning component in vocational education, training and apprenticeships. it also recognises that mobility should not be the only envisaged solution to the unacceptable dimensions of youth unemployment in the eu. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european programme erasmus+ promotes the mobility of european students and staff of higher education institutions. this is to ensure parallel exchange of students between the institutions of the union with the ultimate aim of reducing the disparity in unemployment rates between the member states. providing mobility opportunities for young scientists also boosts the productive economy, as young people are able to come into contact with new scientific methods. however, the difficulty of adequate and full recognition of qualifications and traineeships from one country to another and the lack of a programme for the vocational training of young people, as efforts are mainly directed towards higher education, are a problem. i believe that the main positive outcome of all this is, among other things, to increase employment, to spread the values of european citizenship and to improve the education and training of young people in the union. therefore, the present difficulties should be addressed through policies such as the adaptation of education systems to effectively address the skills mismatch problem and the existence of a corresponding policy on vocational and technical training.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on erasmus+ and other tools to promote mobility in vocational education and training, which clearly shows the need to improve and broaden mobility options for vocational training students. a clear picture of available european programmes combined with available vocational training options will enhance mobility and become an essential tool to help reduce the unemployment rates observed in several member states. on the other hand, i cannot help but note that the commission's legislative initiative in this area cannot ignore the need to protect acquired skills as certified professional experience, and to avoid the phenomena which make employees a cheap labour option.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, taking into account that the respective roles of banks and markets in financing the economy vary from country to country.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report is yet another one which aims to further consolidate power in brussels by removing the sovereign right of the member states to be represented in international organizations. the commission is seeking to transfer this representation to brussels. it has been shown that this accumulation of power does not serve the small states and peoples, but instead aims to serve the big ones and especially the big capital. as a group, we have presented a minority view, presenting the basic parameters of our own position, we have therefore voted against the report.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the today's globalisation has led to a significant interdependence of economies around the world and so the various international organisations are exposed to the risk of failure if one organisation fails the other. although these bodies have their own separate governance, i believe that the eu should regulate important aspects of their operation so as to reduce the complexity and divergence in practices and thus mitigate the risk of their failure, a failure which will drag the entire international economic and monetary community along with it, as happened with the recent financial crisis. through shared governance, the eu will also be able to promote the values of its treaties, such as transparency, accountability and democratisation. these principles should clarify the objectives pursued by the establishment of each body, together with its means of operation and sources of funding, including voluntary contributions and donations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the treaty.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report removes the sovereign right of the member states to be represented in international organizations and instead transfers this right to brussels. in this way, more and more powers are being transferred to the centre of the eu, so that the interests of the large and rich member states can be better represented. we voted against because the interests of the peoples and the interests of small states such as cyprus are not served.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and recall that coastal fishing is an extremely important form of fishing in eu countries. it ensures a high level of employment and is a socially and environmentally sustainable form of fishing.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ despite the general consensus that the common fisheries policy is particularly negative in relation to small-scale fishing, this report is a step in the right direction. whereas it recognises that small-scale fishing should not be categorised in the same way as large-scale fishing and that a clearer distinction should therefore be made; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the coastal fishing is a well-known form of fishing for many member states of the union. as a form of employment, it is also environmentally friendly. called differently in each country, such as 'traditional' or 'industrial' fishing, it is an important means of livelihood and a way of life for many inhabitants of coastal and island areas. the eu has already adopted several regulations on this sector, such as the common fisheries policy (cfp) regulation of 2013 and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) regulation of 2014, taking into account the needs of these coastal areas. these regulations have recognised the need to protect this occupation by measures such as preferential access to 12 nautical miles. the emff also supports innovation and new investment in this area, such as investment in education and information programmes. the recession of recent years, which has been caused by the general economic difficulties in many of these island regions, must therefore be tackled by new ideas and policies. this can be achieved by a new cap, which will provide a more modern framework adapted to the new challenges.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and believe that the new eu cap includes important parameters and, if properly implemented, will improve eu standards for fishing in remote waters. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the it is positive that the basic regulation on the common fisheries policy includes, for the first time, a chapter on the external dimension, including minimum conditions for bilateral agreements. it shall promote cooperation between regional fisheries management organisations and the consistency of their measures. it explicitly refers to common standards both inside and outside eu waters and states that measures must be based on the best available scientific advice. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, first of all i would like to reiterate on behalf of the gue/ngl our pain and dismay at the recent terrorist attacks in brussels. our thoughts are with the victims of the attacks and their families and we express our sympathy and solidarity with the belgian and french states and with all the peoples who are experiencing terrorism. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. these criminal attacks and the rise of fundamentalism are the direct consequence of the wars created by intervention, the unjust distribution of wealth and the political interventions of the great powers in the interior of the countries. the european union is not without responsibility. we must remember that large member states have obediently followed american imperialism and have supported politically and economically all the extremist islamic organizations, from which the terrorist monster of isis has emerged. but the people of europe have a historic duty not to succumb to the islamophobic, racist overtones of the far right that wants to target foreigners, refugees and muslims, inside and outside europe. if european societies accept that their security depends on new draconian measures of surveillance, mass surveillance, further curtailment of individual rights and freedoms, then this will be a retreat and a defeat of democratic values in the face of terrorism. the best and most effective way to counter the dark forces of terrorism is through the war against injustice, against widening economic inequalities, against the interventions and wars that breed the monster of terrorism. it is also a fact that the paris and brussels terrorists were naturalised europeans, born in europe, and this proves the failure of the systems of integration of immigrants, and i want to congratulate president juncker, because he has right from the start pointed out this very fact by stating that the fight against terrorism does not pass through the creation of more democracy, but through the strengthening of those social policies which will bring social development, justice and solidarity. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
gue/ngl), a reply to a question with a blue card. first of all, we must not forget that terrorism is born of specific ideas. but, as i said in my first intervention, isis, like other radical islamic organizations, was supported by western countries. they were backed by big powers, economically and militarily and politically. even today, they have trade relations with some countries that are our allies, in the west i mean, like saudi arabia, like turkey, and they are supported by these countries economically and commercially. the european union therefore has a responsibility for the promotion of terrorism, and we must never forget that.
the commission madam president, we must impose sanctions on baku for the new attack against the people of nagorno karabakh. the people of nagorno-karabakh resisted for sixty years soviet totalitarianism and were not absorbed by the authoritarianism and dictatorial regime of azerbaijan. after a hard, bloody struggle, he won his freedom and the right to self-determination, which is the only solution. it is the responsibility of the european union to support the karabakh people who are fighting alone for their freedom, and not to keep the convenient equidistant distance of maintaining an unjust status quo. peace means recognition of the self-determination of the people of nagorno-karabakh, and imposing sanctions against azerbaijan will bring peace much closer.
madam president, vice-president mogherini has made this very clear by stating that the military confrontation does not offer a political solution to the problem. however, we should stress the importance of the fact that the co-chairs of the minsk group called on both armenia and azerbaijan to accept a mechanism to investigate ceasefire violations, as has already been stated by some of my colleagues. without such a mechanism, both sides will continue to blame each other for initiating the attacks, and there will also be a loss of lives. armenia has agreed to discuss the details of saving the mechanism. so far azerbaijan has not. so it is one thing to be neutral but another to be impartial. that is why, with this mechanism in place, some lives on both sides could have been saved.
madam president, this debate brings to the fore one of the biggest problems of the european union, that we agree on things that are not implemented. with turkey, this has become a tradition. and it's become a tradition, because we go back at least twenty years. turkey is not implementing all the agreements and protocols it has signed with the european union on matters of fundamental law within turkey itself, and in particular in relation to the member state of the republic of cyprus. so, mr tusk, when we say that we cannot sacrifice cyprus, when i hear mr brok say 'we will continue to condemn the violation of human rights in turkey', those are words. when will we decide to abandon erdoğan and protect the principles and the rule of law of the european union itself? that's the question.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as the swedish authorities state that the reason for the redundancies is the developments affecting european commercial vehicles, and in particular the truck industry in recent years, i.e. the emerging asian truck manufacturers and the difficulties of the truck industry to adapt, forcing it to increase efficiency and reduce costs.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the release of funds because, despite our disagreement with the logic of the european globalisation fund, in this case it supports dismissed workers.
in writing. ‒ although we disagree with the logic of the european globalisation fund, we voted in favour of freeing up the funds because they support displaced workers through various programmes.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and the commission's proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf. the proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 380 000 from the fund, covering technical assistance for the commission. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring, information provision, the creation of a knowledge base interface and the provision of advice to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the release of funds because, despite our disagreement with the logic of the european globalisation fund, in this case it supports dismissed workers.
in writing. ‒ although we disagree with the logic of the european globalisation fund, we voted in favour of freeing up the funds, because they support displaced workers through various programmes.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, taking into account that the massive influx of refugees and migrants into europe has created an emergency situation where large numbers of people need urgent humanitarian assistance within the union, a situation which has put a serious test on the response capacity of the member states most affected.
in writing. ‒ the we abstained in this report, always stressing that our approach to the refugee problem must be one of solidarity and commitment to human values. we are critical of the policing and isolation of member states or the marginalization of groups of the population. the commission has proposed to increase the staffing level of europol, while cutting funds from the humanitarian aid and social protection fund. we did not vote against the report because part of the funds will be given to greece to support the refugee issue.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has proposed to increase the staffing level of europol, while cutting funds from the humanitarian aid and social protection fund. we did not vote against the report because part of the funds will be given to greece to support the refugee question. we have abstained, always stressing that our approach to dealing with refugees must be one of solidarity and commitment to humanitarian values, not policing and isolating member states or marginalizing groups of the population. we have repeatedly condemned in the strongest terms the racist, xenophobic voices of member states, and we continue to express our solidarity with the refugees.
in writing. ‒ we support the appointment of samo jereb.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the proposal for the candidate in question on the basis of the apparent lack of independence and the potential for conflict of interest that undermines both the mission and the role of the court of auditors as an independent external eu auditor and 'economic watchdog', as well as the lack of gender balance.
in writing. ‒ we support the appointment of mihails kozlovs.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the proposal for the candidate in question on the basis of the apparent lack of independence and the potential for conflict of interest that undermines the mission, but also the role of the court of auditors as an independent external eu auditor and 'economic watchdog', and due to the lack of gender balance.
in writing. ‒ we support the appointment of jan gregor.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the proposal for the candidate in question on the basis of the apparent lack of independence and the potential for conflict of interest that undermines the mission and the role of the court of auditors as an independent external eu auditor and 'economic watchdog', as well as the lack of gender balance.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the appointment of ladislav balko.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the proposal for the candidate in question on the basis of the apparent lack of independence and the potential for conflict of interest that undermines the mission and the role of the court of auditors as an independent external eu auditor and 'economic watchdog', as well as the lack of gender balance.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the appointment of janusz wojciechowski.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the proposal for the candidate in question on the basis of the apparent lack of independence and the potential for conflict of interest that undermines the mission and role of the court of auditors, as the eu's independent external auditor and 'economic watchdog', and on the basis of the lack of gender balance.
in writing. ‒ we support the report calling on the commission not to renew the approval of glyphosate and to set a clear timetable for the establishment of a list of excipients that are not allowed to be contained in plant protection products.
in writing. ‒ the that report concerned the renewal of the approval of the active substance glyphosate. a number of independent studies reveal a number of worrying findings in terms of health and the environment. our position was that the pesticide should not be renewed and that we should go one step further and ask for its withdrawal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the we support the report and note that many of the current and future challenges and threats facing and facing the eu are complex and interrelated and originate from state and non-state actors both within and outside its common borders. strong political will and leadership for decisive joint action by the eu and its member states is needed to address these challenges proactively, collectively and effectively, to safeguard the eu's values and social model, and to make the eu more effective and strategic in contributing to global security.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the whole report because we disagree on the substance of the eu's foreign policy. as a group we have put forward a minority view which stresses, among other things, complete nuclear disarmament at eu and global level, the financing of military expenditure from the eu budget, and that all activities must be strictly confined within the framework of the un charter and international law. it also stressed the union's peaceful approach to conflict resolution and called for the eu to withdraw from nato and for nato to be dissolved.
in writing. ‒ the the eu's foreign policy is now inextricably linked not to the interests of the people but to those of the monopoly groups and us imperialism. our group voted against the report as a whole and took a minority view with its main views being complete (and nuclear) disarmament at eu and global level, no funding of military spending from the eu budget and that all activities should be strictly limited to the un charter and international law; strictly non-military and peaceful approaches to conflict resolution; and to the eu's separation from nato and the dissolution of nato.
in writing. ‒ we support the report. the eu-central asia strategy was adopted in the context of the growing importance of the region and the eu's increased involvement in neighbouring afghanistan, the extension of the european neighbourhood policy to the caspian region, the eu's continued support for the reform and modernisation of post-soviet societies, and the eu's energy security interests.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the eu strategy in central asia. unfortunately, however, it contains a number of negative elements such as macrofinancial assistance, extension of its failed policies to neighbouring states, energy liberalisation by russia and cooperation with the us across the region to tackle the various problems. the report also contains positive elements, particularly in relation to human rights, child labour, drugs and the arms trade. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and call on the commission to present an action plan to prevent the spread of the virus in europe and to help member states and third countries to combat this epidemic in the areas where the outbreak is most severe.
in writing. ‒ the the report calls on the commission to present an action plan to prevent the spread of the virus in europe and to help member states and third countries to combat this epidemic. it also stressed the need to develop plans for the prevention and response to the zika epidemic. we therefore consider it appropriate to vote in favour of this motion.
in writing. ‒ the report stresses the need to develop immediate plans for the prevention and response to the zika epidemic. it also called on the commission to present an action plan to prevent the spread of the virus in europe and to help member states and third countries to combat this epidemic. we have voted in favour for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and express the hope that the structured dialogue between the polish government and the commission will lead to the revision of other polish government decisions that raise concerns regarding their legality and their possible impact on fundamental rights.
the question is "blue card". i would like to ask the rapporteur, madam president, to state clearly whether she feels that the european union is to blame for the fact that turkey's accession process is not progressing. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is not only a political union, but it is also a political union. because it wants, in effect, a generous membership of the european union compared to all the other countries - both those within the european union and those that are candidates for membership - which necessarily meet all the criteria. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs kati piri, on her excellent and productive cooperation throughout the debate. i think that the situation in turkey goes far beyond the discussion we are having here about the report. a report which, for the most part, reflects reality. in southeastern turkey there are already some 300,000 displaced persons. much of the city of sur is completely abandoned. much of it has been confiscated, expropriated. so, basically, they took the assets of 60,000 people. academics and journalists are persecuted simply for speaking freely. on 22 april, a week from now, these people are to stand trial in istanbul, and i have already been asked by the defendants to allow members of parliament to attend and observe the trial. we call on turkey to immediately start a dialogue to resolve the kurdish issue and to stop persecuting freedom of expression. the removal and deletion of the pkk from the european union's list of terrorist organizations will help. the report contains very positive references to the cyprus problem, including the reference that the solution will be the transformation of the republic of cyprus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the turkish cypriot authorities have not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the turkish cypriot authorities are able to fulfil their obligations under the treaty of rome. we expect a land map to be filed immediately, which will facilitate the resolution of the estate. i believe that turkey is facing many challenges and our aim is to provide all the help we can to the turkish people.
mr president, the report and most of my colleagues are quite clear that turkey cannot become a member of the european union, despite the supposedly positive developments in the cyprus problem. the european parliament, commissioner hahn, would be making a grave mistake if it were to become an accomplice in proceedings which promote turkish aggression against the republic of cyprus and overturn decisions of the european parliament, the commission and the council. if you believe that a solution is imminent, i say that a solution at this moment means the dissolution of the republic of cyprus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament, instead of defending the republic of cyprus, rejects amendments which support it, in the logic of the impending solution and the disappearing republic of cyprus. even the minister did not once use the term 'republic of cyprus'. it is not the responsibility of the european parliament to decide how and in what form the cyprus problem will be solved. but it is his duty as the guardian of the principles and values of the european union to safeguard them and to ensure that the solution respects human and political rights and the european acquis without exception for all citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore ask you to reject the report.
the european parliament has a duty to speak clearly on the subject of turkey in this report. every year turkey is worse, on all levels. turkey itself is worsening its position in all institutions, at all levels. it does not respect anyone, not even the principles and values of the european union, which it would like to be respected by being fully part of the european union. so if there is anyone responsible for turkey's accession process, it is turkey itself. i think, however, that the european parliament in particular must send a clear message: that concessions cannot be made to those who do not respect any principle, particularly the accession process, because that would in itself destroy the european union itself, which is a union of principles and values. i also believe that this should be made clear to all those colleagues who are trying to ask for funds to be opened up for turkey before it applies the minimum that it must apply. i would remind you that it does not recognise its own signature to the ankara protocol, it does not recognise a country that is a member of the european union, it occupies the territory of a country that is a member of the european union and a country that is a member of the euro zone. turkey itself has 40,000 troops in a member state of the european union and i would like to ask my dear colleagues: what would they do if they were in the same situation as the cypriot people today, in terms of turkey's behaviour, its response and its violation of principles? the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
mr president, turkey has been repeatedly criticised in this chamber for violating the human rights of its citizens, for silencing the press and social media, for its attitude to the kurdish issue, for its relations with isis, for its blackmailing of refugees, for its occupation of cyprus. the question is one and very simple: has turkey made progress in all these years or is it going for the worse? and we all know the answer: the european union is moving away from its values every day. do you not think it is time for europe to change its attitude of being a handmaiden to ankara, to force turkey to become a genuine democratic country without creating problems and to become a pole of peace and stability? the college of commissioners decided yesterday to rename the task force for turkish cypriots into a support group for the solution of the cyprus problem. if you really want a solution to the cyprus problem, there is only one way: the withdrawal of the occupying troops, the implementation of the four fundamental freedoms and the application of the acquis communautaire throughout the territory, in a united europe. otherwise, everything else will fail.
mr president, this report contains a number of facts and truths about what is happening in turkey today, particularly with regard to the kurds. but the question i ask, in order not to repeat the same thing, is what are we doing today for turkey. i would like to take you back a few years, commissioner. in 2005, the republic of cyprus agreed to open funds for turkey and its accession talks. since then, 11 years have passed. the objective statement of all is that things are worse in turkey than they were. violations, freedom of the press, all that has disappeared. i have no idea what you mean by that. it is demanding that akinci, the turkish cypriot leader, give the settlers legal status, it is building a dam in the occupied province of kyrenia, where i come from as a refugee, it is trying to connect the occupied part of cyprus with a pipeline from turkey. that means he doesn't want a solution. i would like to conclude by suggesting, mr president, that the immediate withdrawal of the occupying forces from cyprus would mean that he wants a solution.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report rightly denounces the violations of fundamental rights, the breakdown of the rule of law and the persecution of kurds, journalists and academics in turkey. but if we recognize that turkey is violating human rights and fundamental freedoms, including those of its own people, how can the pressure to open chapters 23 and 24 be justified? it's an oxymoron that some people turn a blind eye to and support state terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also unacceptable to promote exchanges for alleged services provided by turkey to refugees when it has taken no measures to support refugees. unfortunately, the report welcomes the unacceptable agreement between the european union and turkey, which violates international law and sets the conditions for trafficking in human beings with turkey. our position is clear. the accession of turkey requires both the democratization of the country itself and the implementation of its cypriot commitments.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the accession of albania, a country which, according to all statistics, is one of the poorest in europe, with a real per capita income of 280 euros and an unemployment rate of 18%. in addition, the country is beset by serious problems of corruption and political polarization. it is for these reasons that, while we support the country's accession process and the will of its citizens to join the union, we disagree with the policies promoted by the union in this country. we are opposed to the economic and social policies being promoted. what is needed is an open and honest dialogue with the representatives of the country, about the specificities of that country. albania, like the other western balkan states, needs support to create real structures that are ready to deal with the serious problems they face. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes, in particular the implementation of the european union's external action programmes, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's external action programmes. we must not think that we hold the absolute truth for all and apply it fully to all.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and consider the single european passenger name record (pnr) system to be a necessary tool in the fight against terrorism, especially after the recent terrorist attacks.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and consider the single european passenger name record (pnr) system to be a necessary tool in the fight against terrorism, especially after the recent terrorist attacks.
in writing. ‒ we support the report. the nature of criminal and terrorist activity has been constantly evolving in recent years. it has become bolder, more sophisticated and increasingly transnational. citizens increasingly want stronger action at eu level to tackle organised crime and terrorism.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against this report because we believe it violates basic human rights. it does not only hold the personal data of those entering the union, but also of those moving within it. there is also no targeting of which people the data will be used, giving the right to withhold personal data even for people not related to terrorism issues.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that trade secrets play an important role in protecting the exchange of knowledge between businesses, in particular smes, and research institutions, within and beyond the internal market, in the context of research and development and innovation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because it is flawed in terms of the importance it attaches to defending the interests of big companies, the anaemic and almost absent protection of citizens from secret corporate practices when these practices are classified as trade secrets. the same applies to the protection of whistle-blowers, since the term is not even used in the text that was voted.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress the need to present accurately and transparently the budgetary development from year to year
in writing. ‒ the report is contrary to our longstanding positions. it is based on the logic of the general budget, austerity and memoranda. we are not going to vote for the report, but we are going to vote for the report, and we are going to vote for the report. that is why we have opposed the report.
in writing. ‒ the report was based on the logic of the general budget of austerity and memoranda. our positions on him are clearly against. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ turkey continues to back down on respect for democracy and the rule of law. the pace of reform in turkey has slowed significantly in recent years, with some key areas showing a backsliding and increasing divergence from the copenhagen criteria. the european union is also calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary steps to ensure that the turkish cypriot authorities are able to comply with the obligations of the european union. we call on turkey to fully implement its commitment to the full and non-discriminatory implementation of the additional protocol to the ec-turkey association agreement vis-à-vis all member states, including the republic of cyprus, which could give a significant impetus to the negotiating process. we are opposed to any attempt to open accession funds for turkey without fulfilling its obligations towards cyprus and the eu.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the progress report on turkey rightly highlights the backwardness in almost all areas in the country. the violations of fundamental rights, the breakdown of the rule of law and the persecution of kurds, journalists and academics in turkey are issues that the report analyses in depth and calls on turkey to take immediate action to change this situation. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights, and that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights. the solution will be the result of the transformation of the republic of cyprus into an oct with one sovereignty, one international personality and one citizenship, on the basis of international law and relevant un resolutions. the european parliament, the council and the commission have adopted a number of resolutions on the situation in the former yugoslavia, including the resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia and the resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the commission is also condemning the settlement policy. the report also contains some negative elements, such as the reference to the opening of accession funds, support for the eu-turkey agreement on migration and nato involvement in the aegean. for these reasons we abstained.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the resolution rightly denounces the violations of fundamental rights, the breakdown of the rule of law and the persecution of kurds, journalists and academics in turkey. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council at the next meeting of the european council. the european union is also calling for the establishment of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the principles of the european union. the condemnation of the settlement, the call on turkey to open the files that will help to clarify the fate of the missing, to implement resolution 550 on famagusta, to lift its military presence in cyprus and to actively support the negotiating process, all contribute to a positive image of the cyprus issues touched upon in the report. the report also contains some negative remarks which cannot be ignored. it welcomes the unacceptable eu-turkey agreement, which is in breach of international law and contrary to international conventions on refugees. the european union is also pressing for the opening of chapters 23 and 24 of turkey's accession, despite the fact that turkey refuses to implement its cypriot obligations and daily violates the human rights of its people. for these reasons we abstained.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ albania is one of the poorest countries in europe. the progress report is promoting policies that are opposed to us. while the country is plagued by serious problems of corruption and political polarization, it is being called upon to move towards economic models that make it even more difficult for ordinary people. it is for these reasons that, while supporting the country's accession process and the will of its citizens to join the union, we abstained from the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we are not opposed to bosnia and herzegovina's desire for closer relations with the eu and ultimately for accession to the union. however, we disagree with the economic policies being promoted by the eu in the country, with the privatization processes, etc. it is for these reasons that we abstained from voting on this report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we abstained as the report only superficially addresses the problems of the rising cost of living/housing, especially the two key issues of the minimum income and the introduction of a moratorium on the cutting off of electricity to households.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the role of the private sector in development has increased significantly in recent years. however, placing private finance at the heart of the development agenda is a major cause for concern, without an equal emphasis on building a strong and effective regulatory environment. we have therefore voted against the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. at a time of increasing economic problems in many eu member states, no one can doubt the positive role and potential of the eib to support and promote growth through lending in member states that are genuinely suffering from a lack of liquidity and cheap money. i believe that the eib should focus exclusively on financing projects and businesses that create new jobs. unemployment in the eu is uncontrollable and unfortunately rising at a dramatic rate. i therefore believe that the fight against unemployment should be a priority for the eu and, by extension, for the eib. i also find that the eib's operating model to date creates bureaucracy which is not consistent with its objective which should be direct and effective intervention and financing of member states' businesses and economies. i think it is very important that the eib itself should be directly involved in evaluating and financing enterprises. the fact that the eib does not directly finance enterprises creates unnecessary red tape and, perhaps because of this fact, results are often meagre.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, i am one of those who firmly believe that the european union has done too much for refugees and i wish that the rest of us would show the same sensitivity. i am one of those who wish to see the agreements with turkey implemented so that we can deal with the refugee problem. but is it not worrying and provocative that turkey continues to exploit the refugee crisis and blackmail the european union in order to obtain either concessions in the negotiations or membership on concessional terms? it is not provocative that until yesterday the prime minister and the president of turkey returned to this house the progress report? and i would like to ask you to be clear: are you in favour of opening negotiating chapters with turkey and of issuing visas without turkey recognising the republic of cyprus and agreeing to the ankara protocol to which it is a signatory?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, i have a few questions to ask you, mr timmermans: the agreement, you said, was reached and has started to work, with the result that the flow of refugees from turkey to greece has stopped. my big question and my big wonder is how did this happen? how is it possible today what could not be done yesterday, before the deal? is it not reasonable for me to conclude that turkey was simply waiting to see the commission or the european union fall to its knees and then implement what the agreement provides for? you said the deal opened up human avenues for refugees to come to europe. where did you see these guys? the only thing that is happening in the aegean today, by the turkish coast guard, is to be throwing water against boats trying to transport people to greece. this is the reality. i have one more question, though. because you said there was no other way. because at the same time, i repeat at the same time, we are not giving 1 billion euros of what we are giving turkey to rebuild a city inside syria so that, gradually, what you said happens: people go back to their homes, because they have no homes today. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
gue/ngl), a reply to a question with a blue card. at the end of my speech, in the one minute i had, i gave a perspective by saying that, alongside the agreement, we could take one of these billions of euros - which today are three but will be four or five or six - so that one or two cities could be rebuilt inside syria and, when the conditions are right, these people have a place to return to. we are not here today to give solutions only. we are here to discuss the legality of the agreement, and this should not be forgotten, especially by a member of the european parliament who is a representative of the people.
s & d) and the commissioner, the rules of european union law are made to be applied. the agreements between the european union and turkey were also made to be applied. in your original statement - and i am speaking slowly to ensure that the translation is correct - you spoke in a positive way because this agreement is producing results and you stressed that there is no other option. i must admit that i did not expect such a position from the commission, given that turkey has been in accession for over a decade. turkey has had trade relations with the european union for over 15 years. is there no other choice, given that we have all these relationships? if, commissioner, there are other priorities in the commission, i think it is your duty to mention them. that is not the rule of law of the european union.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report, as the purpose of the protocol to the agreement is to make the republic of croatia a party to the common european aviation area between the european union, its member states and georgia, and to provide for the necessary language adaptations. the protocol does not introduce any substantive changes to the common european aviation area.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ although the agreement is presented as a technical one, it is part of the single european sky, which we disagreed with as it is aimed primarily at opening up markets and regulatory harmonisation that promotes competition in the air transport sector. that is why we voted against the agreement.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the revision of the agreement is not just a technical issue for the inclusion of croatia in the agreement on the eu-georgia common european space. we voted as a group against this agreement in the initial vote as it is part of the single european sky, which we disagree with as it is aimed primarily at opening up markets and regulatory harmonization that promotes competition in the air transport sector. we have therefore voted against the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report, as the purpose of the protocol is to allow the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel and to provide for the necessary consequential language adjustments. the protocol will not introduce any change in the substance of the euro-mediterranean air transport agreement.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the although the agreement is presented as a technical one, it is part of the single european sky, which we disagreed with as it is aimed primarily at opening up markets and regulatory harmonization that promotes competition in the air transport sector. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we voted against the agreement.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the revision of the agreement is not just a technical issue for the inclusion of croatia in the eu-israel euro-mediterranean air transport agreement. we voted against this agreement as a group in the initial vote because it is part of the single european sky, which we disagree with because it is aimed primarily at opening up markets and regulatory harmonization which promotes competition in the air transport sector. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report which calls on the council, if it intends to depart from the text adopted by parliament, to inform it accordingly.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report which is a legislative one and concerns a cooperation agreement with croatia, which is already an eu member, on customs services.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against this report as we agree with the convention of 18 december 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs services. we have therefore agreed to croatia's accession to this convention.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ having examined the report of the committee on legal affairs on the request for waiver of the immunity of bolesław g. piecha, we consider that the criteria for waiver of the immunity of the member are met.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity of polish mep bolesław g. piecha who had been involved in a road accident and had pleaded guilty.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the resolution, which follows hundreds of reports on cases involving children received by the european parliament's committee on petitions. we call on member states to designate special divisions within family courts or crossborder mediation bodies to deal with crossborder cases involving children in the eu. we stress the need for the european commission and the member states to establish rules for the automatic recognition of domestic adoption decisions issued in other member states.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the report as it corrects many problematic practices of the authorities regarding the living conditions of children, the protection of children's rights, the custody of children and their care.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this motion for a resolution is necessary in view of the increasing number of reports to the committee concerned on crossborder cases relating to childcare. in summary, the need to revise and re-specificate the brussels iia regulation and the justice systems of the member states, which should establish mechanisms to monitor the progress of their cross-border decisions (orders and decisions on custody, guardianship and communication), is highlighted. the proposal also emphasizes the need for the systems of the member states to be linked and cooperate in cases of crossborder kidnapping on the basis of guidelines to be drawn up by the commission.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against this report because it contains many positive proposals to safeguard the interests of children. in particular, it calls on the member states to adopt a precautionary approach and to ensure appropriate policies to strengthen the human rights and freedoms of children, to support families and to strengthen the welfare state to support children. it also calls for accession to the 1993 hague convention to ensure that all children benefit from the same standards.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report as we consider the request for consultation of the european economic and social committee on the establishment of a european pillar of social rights, in accordance with article 137 of the rules of procedure, to be important.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the proposal to consult the european economic and social committee on the establishment of a european pillar of social rights. we have put the social rights of citizens at the heart of our policy and we will monitor the consultation to ensure that it is in the interests of citizens and workers in particular.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the draft legislative resolution, as it contains a number of points of friction.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we opposed the whole railway package because the whole package, although technical, is part of the wider single european railway package, which has as its ultimate objective the privatisation of european rail networks and the full harmonisation of regulations, prices, etc., under the pretext of removing administrative and technical barriers restricting competition.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the rejection of the package consisting of 3 reports (eu railway organisation, eu rail interoperability, and railway safety) because, despite the technical nature of the subject, the report is part of the 4th railway package, which promotes railway privatisation.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the draft legislative resolution, as it contains a number of points of friction.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we opposed the whole railway package because the whole package, although technical, is part of the wider single european railway package, which has as its ultimate objective the privatisation of european rail networks and the full harmonisation of regulations, prices, etc., under the pretext of removing administrative and technical barriers restricting competition.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the rejection of the package consisting of 3 reports (eu railway organisation, eu rail interoperability, and railway safety) because, despite the technical nature of the subject, the report is part of the 4th railway package, which promotes railway privatisation.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the draft legislative resolution, as it contains a number of points of friction.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we opposed the whole railway package because the whole package, although technical, is part of the wider single european railway package, which has as its ultimate objective the privatisation of european rail networks and the full harmonisation of regulations, prices, etc., under the pretext of removing administrative and technical barriers restricting competition.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the rejection of the package consisting of 3 reports (eu railway organisation, eu rail interoperability, and railway safety) because, despite the technical nature of the subject, the report is part of the 4th railway package, which promotes railway privatisation.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and stress the urgent need for additional legislative measures, at least with regard to the more widely used benchmarks, in order to improve governance mechanisms and mitigate conflicts of interest. when adopting additional legislation, it should be taken into account that too many businesses, households, investors and financial institutions rely on daily basis on benchmarks accessible from across the eu and from third countries in order to trade, trade, invest, hedge and lend or borrow efficiently. therefore, for the sake of stability and efficiency of markets and the economy as a whole, legislative measures should not restrict, as far as possible, the number and variety of benchmarks provided and used in the union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ as a group we voted against the report on benchmarks in financial instruments on the grounds that the report, both by the commission and by parliament, does not resolutely address the real problems that exist with benchmarks, problems concerning their manipulation by banks, as was done with the euribor and libor indices.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the taking into account that, pursuant to article 17 (1) of the treaty on european union, the commission implements the budget and manages programmes and does so on its own responsibility, pursuant to article 317 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in cooperation with the member states, in accordance with the principle of sound financial management, we support the report granting the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the report on the discharge and closure of the accounts of the innovation and networks executive agency, the research executive agency, the european research council executive agency, the consumer, health, agriculture and food executive agency, the small and medium-sized enterprises executive agency and the education, audiovisual and culture executive agency as the audit carried out for the selection of the budgets of the bodies under review for the financial year 2014 did not contain any deficiencies or mismanagement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to the detriment of the community's own resources.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the motion for a resolution, taking into account that the special reports of the court of auditors provide information on matters of concern relating to the implementation of expenditure and are therefore useful to parliament in the exercise of its role as discharge authority.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the report on the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the commission's discharge for 2014. the report contains a proper analysis of 23 eca special reports of the court of auditors, which are supported by a series of recommendations based on each of them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report concerned the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014. in the past we have refused to grant a discharge because the error rate has increased, there are still problems with payments (which are significantly affected by errors) and finally there is a lack of compliance with contracting and documentation rules. therefore, we abstained.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report taking into account that the secretary-general, on 18 september 2015, stated that he has reasonable assurance that the resources allocated to parliament's budget have been used for the intended purpose and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management.
in writing. ‒ we support the report postponing the decision to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the proposal concerned the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 for the european council and the council. it should be noted that, because the budget of the european council and the council are not separated, there is insufficient transparency in the financial management of the budget. we therefore voted in favour of postponing the discharge.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and welcome the fact that the court of auditors, on the basis of the audits it has carried out, has concluded that, for the year ended 31 december 2014, the total of payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and other bodies is free from material error.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of discharge and closure of the accounts for the financial activity of the court of justice of the european union as the audits carried out did not show any problems. the report also recognises that the representation of women at the court of justice of the european union needs to be further strengthened.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and recognise the key role of the court in ensuring that european funds are used more efficiently and intelligently.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report concerns the discharge and closure of the accounts for the implementation of the general budget of the european union (for the financial year 2014) for the court of auditors. the court of auditors' procedures have been improved to a certain extent, and we therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and welcome the fact that the court of auditors, on the basis of the audits it has carried out, has concluded that, for the year ended 31 december 2014, the total of payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and other bodies is free from material error.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report concerns the discharge and closure of the accounts for the implementation of the general budget of the european union (for the financial year 2014) for the european economic and social committee. the committee's work has been improved, and we therefore voted in favour of the proposal.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and welcome the fact that the court of auditors concluded, on the basis of its audits, that for the year ended 31 december 2014, the total of payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and other bodies was free from material error.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report concerns the discharge and closure of the accounts for the implementation of the general budget of the european union (for the financial year 2014) for the committee of the regions. the commission's procedures have been improved, and we therefore voted in favour of this report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and welcome the fact that the european external action service (eeas) has continued to implement its budget without being affected by major errors and that the overall level of error in the administrative budget was estimated by the court of auditors at 0.5%.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and welcome the fact that the court of auditors, on the basis of the audits it has carried out, has concluded that for the year ended 31 december 2014, the total of payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and other bodies is free from material error.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report concerns the discharge and closure of the accounts for the implementation of the general budget of the european union (financial year 2014) for the european ombudsman. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and note the court of auditors' conclusion that the total payments in the area of administrative and other expenditure of the european data protection supervisor for the financial year ended 31 december 2014 were free from material error and that the supervisory and control systems examined for administrative and other expenditure were effective.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report concerns the discharge and closure of the accounts for the implementation of the general budget of the european union (financial year 2014) for the european data protection supervisor. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and reiterate the importance of the tasks carried out by agencies and the direct impact they have on the daily lives of union citizens. we also stress the importance of the autonomy of agencies, in particular regulatory agencies and agencies carrying out independent information gathering.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the report on discharge and closure of accounts for the european commission and the executive agencies, given that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments by our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and approve the closure of the accounts of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the report on discharge and closure of accounts for the european commission and the executive agencies, given that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of agencies, while at the same time adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and approve the closure of the accounts of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the report on discharge and closure of accounts for the european commission and the executive agencies, given that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and approve the closure of the accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and approve the closure of the accounts of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and approve the closure of the accounts of the european police college for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and approve the closure of the accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and approve the closure of the accounts of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report approving the closure of the accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as it approves the closure of the accounts of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report which justifiably approves the closure of the accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we found that it justifiably approves the closure of the accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we found that it justifiably approves the closure of the accounts of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we found that it justifiably approves the closure of the accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the report as we considered that there was a conflict of interest at efsa after someone with close links to the food industry was recently appointed as director of communications. for this reason, efsa has lost much of its credibility and we have therefore chosen not to grant a waiver until the matter is clarified.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we found that it justifiably approves the closure of the accounts of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we found that it justifiably approves the closure of the accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we found it justified in approving the closure of the accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which justifiably grants the executive director of the european medicines agency a discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which justifiably authorises the closure of the accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which justifiably grants the executive director of the european maritime safety agency a discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which justifiably grants the executive director of the european network and information security agency a discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which provides in detail for a discharge to be given to the acting director of the european railway agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which provides in detail for a discharge to be given to the executive director of the european securities and markets authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which provides in detail for a discharge to be granted to the director of the european training foundation in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which grants a detailed discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which provides in detail for a discharge to be given to the director of the european agency for safety and health at work in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the report on discharge and closure of accounts concerning the european commission and executive agencies, as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments by our group on the question of better democratic accountability of organisations, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the organisations from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which approves in detail the closure of the accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which justifiably grants the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions a discharge in respect of the implementation of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which we consider to be justified in granting a discharge to the administrative director of eurojust in respect of the implementation of eurojust's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which we consider to be justified in granting a discharge to the director of the european police office in respect of the implementation of the office's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which we consider to be justified in granting a discharge to the director of the fundamental rights agency of the european union in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which we consider to be justified in granting a discharge to the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which we consider to be justified in granting a discharge to the executive director of the european gnss agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report in which the european parliament justifiably postpones its decision to grant the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of accounts concerning the european commission and executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments by our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report which we consider to be justified in granting a discharge to the executive director of the clean sky 2 joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the clean sky joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report which we consider to be justified in granting a discharge to the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the european parliament's report which we consider to be justified in postponing its decision to grant the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report which we consider to be justified in granting a discharge to the executive director of the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report which we consider to be justified in granting a discharge to the executive director of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (formerly the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative for innovative medicines) in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the parliament's report, which we consider to be justified in postponing its decision to grant a discharge to the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, which we consider to be justified in granting a discharge to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2014.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted in favour of the present report on the discharge and closure of the accounts concerning the european commission and the executive agencies as the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the operations audited were free from material errors of legality and regularity. in addition, the report was strengthened by amendments from our group on the question of better democratic accountability of the agencies, while adequate measures were introduced to prevent the agencies from being influenced by the lobbies of large companies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that the eib's main task as the eu bank is to provide financial support for projects which are in the union's interest and contribute to the balanced development of the internal market and to social, economic and territorial cohesion, and thus to strengthening european integration, in addition to employment, and is therefore of paramount importance for boosting the union's competitiveness.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the annual report on the european investment bank is a fairly balanced report. in the report parliament generally welcomes the eib's support for small and mediumsized enterprises and also, particularly positively, the report calls for more transparency and accountability on the part of the eib, a demand which our group has always made. in view of the above, we consider this attitude of over-voting to be appropriate.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ as a group, we voted in favour of the european investment bank report because it was quite critical of the scandals in which the eib was involved and because it encouraged it to invest more in the real economy.
in writing. ‒ we express our dismay and deep concern at the alarmingly increasing rate of deadly attacks on hospitals and schools in armed conflicts around the world, where patients, students, medical and teaching staff, humanitarian aid workers, children and family members are targeted and victimized. we therefore call on the eu and un member states, the eu institutions and the vice-president/high representative to recognise the true extent of this state of emergency and to make use of all the means at their disposal.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we have supported the joint resolution, which has been co-signed by our own political group. it contains important elements calling, inter alia, for the eu, the un and the international community in general to take serious action for violations of international humanitarian law for attacks on schools and hospitals. our position is that such attacks must be condemned by all, even in war zones. also, those who use protected people or assets as human shields or a vehicle of deception are also guilty of violations of international humanitarian law.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the resolution in question is a confirmation of the need to apply international humanitarian law in cases of armed conflict. it is the common belief of the members of the european parliament that the european executive bodies can and should help to strengthen the efforts of the international humanitarian investigation committee set up under the 1949 geneva convention for the effective application of international humanitarian law. it is regrettable and worthy of reflection that the states participating in the 32nd international conference of the red cross did not agree to define a new mechanism to reinforce the existing system of governance in relation to international humanitarian law. the commission and the council are therefore called upon, through their representatives, to take the lead in strengthening the institutions for the effective application of humanitarian law.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the resolution because it rightly expresses deep regret at the lack of respect for international humanitarian law and condemns the murderous attacks on hospitals, schools and other civilian targets which are occurring with increasing frequency. it is also very important that the resolution stresses that international convictions must be accompanied by independent investigations and real accountability. the member states and the eu institutions are therefore called upon to recognise the true extent of this critical situation and to address it.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as the right of public access to documents is a fundamental right protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the this own-initiative report deals with a very important issue, namely the free and unhindered access of the public to union documents. the right of public access to documents is a fundamental right protected by the charter of fundamental rights and the treaties and in which serious shortcomings have been observed. the report promotes democracy and transparency, the transparency of legislative and administrative procedures and the transparency of the management of the structural funds. we believe that the report is moving in the right direction, although there could be even more forceful remarks. we therefore consider this vote in favour to be appropriate.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted against the motion for a resolution by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on public access to documents of the institutions. the resolution calls for the full application of the principle of transparency, with the exceptions provided for in regulation no 1049/2001, by the institutions with a view to eliminating the phenomenon of citizens' lack of access to information held by the representatives of the european union. the content of the resolution shows the urgent need to establish faster, less burdensome and more accessible procedures for dealing with complaints of refusal of access to public documents, while limiting the costly legal disputes that follow.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report criticised the opaque operating methods of the eib, the ecb and other european institutions, as well as the commission's methods of concluding international agreements, and the influence of interest groups in the european institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the report contains a number of positive points, but also significant negative points.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report focuses on a sector of the workforce that is largely marginalised in the eu. the report stresses the need for common recognition at eu level of the profession and the value of domestic and care work as real work, as recognition of this profession is likely to reduce undeclared work and promote social inclusion. the report contains many important issues which both the member states and the commission and council should take seriously. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ the according to the international labour organisation's 2010 figures, 2.5 million people were employed as domestic helpers in the eu, 88% of whom were women. if we take into account undeclared work and those living in europe without work permits, we find that the figures are much higher. i supported the report which calls for common recognition at eu level of the profession and value of domestic work and of staff in the care of the elderly and children. the report also highlights the need to promote the exchange of best practices between member states, building on the example of successful models with a positive social and labour impact in the sector such as the 'service note' in belgium, which have proven their effectiveness in reducing undeclared work, improving working conditions and granting legal labour rights to domestic helpers and care staff; it is also important that member states ratify and implement without delay ilo convention no 189 on decent work for domestic workers.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report as it moves in the right direction to strengthen the labour and human rights and freedoms of women working as domestic helpers and dependent care staff in the eu.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the report and stress that digitalisation has brought about revolutionary and radical changes in the way information is accessed and provided, in communication, socialization, study and work, offering new opportunities for participation in public and political dialogue, in training and in the labour market. it opens up new prospects for a self-determined life and offers enormous economic opportunities for the european union and beyond. however, there is a significant gender gap in access to vocational and educational opportunities related to information and communication technologies and it skills. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on gender equality and the implementation of the gender equality strategy, in particular through the implementation of the gender equality strategy. we therefore urge the commission and the council to fully exploit the potential of the information society, ict and the internet to promote women's empowerment, their rights and freedoms and gender equality, irrespective of age, disability, genetic characteristics, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, race, social or ethnic origin, religion or belief or economic status.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are particularly concerned about the need to combat gender stereotypes, which are detrimental to the eu's competitiveness. equally problematic is the approach that policies promoted under the digital agenda may contribute to the gender gap in telecommunications. as a party we have repeatedly expressed our concerns about the digital agenda. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. the report calls for the protection of labour rights and the fight against precarious employment. it is also very important that it warns that the flexibility offered by digitalisation can lead to precarious working conditions. the call for support for the un proposals on gender equality and for the development of a comprehensive strategy to tackle inequalities by member states is equally positive. the need to promote immediate measures to address the gender pay gap and to ensure the free nature of the internet and free access for all is also very positive.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in reality, however, not only is the northern pipeline not a problem, but it is a response to the union's own inability to achieve energy efficiency and supply while enhancing its energy security. the problem for us is that the european union has not yet succeeded in achieving its objective of diversifying sources and routes of supply. the problem is that no real measures have yet been taken to end the energy isolation to which many of the union's countries and regions are condemned, particularly in the south and not in the north. the problem is that we have not yet been able to tackle the serious problems in the energy supply, while energy poverty is afflicting a large proportion of the population. what is needed is the immediate exploitation of the union's domestic energy resources, and an end to the ignoring of the role of deposits discovered in cyprus, which is a member state, and of deposits in the wider region of the eastern mediterranean and north africa. the european union is therefore called upon to support energy investment in the eastern mediterranean immediately, to promote the creation of a mediterranean gas hub with pipelines and to develop the production of liquefied natural gas. it is equally important for us to develop a comprehensive strategy for the development of renewable energy sources, while ensuring affordable prices for consumers. the speaker accepts to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to focus more attention on the fact that the european union must turn to domestic energy sources but, at the same time, develop renewable energy sources even more.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today the commission and the mainstream circles in the union are repeating their wishes for economic growth and employment for young people, through the same failed policies of austerity and memorandum. cyprus, despite the celebrations of the 'success story' of the memoranda and austerity policies, is yet another tragic example of this failure. the right-wing government in cyprus and the troika with the memorandum policies have led to a youth unemployment rate of 28.2%. the number of employees has fallen by 30,000 in the last three years, while thousands of young people are moving abroad or not returning home after their studies. cyprus has the highest rate of increase in longterm unemployment in the union, even after the supposed exit from the memorandum. the country was ranked fifth in the european union in terms of parttime employment, with wages of €500 and 94.3% of employees saying that the contract they signed was not their choice. neoliberal austerity policies have failed. we need direct public investment for social development and the creation of new, safe and decent jobs. the speaker accepts to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8))
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. thank you for asking. the cypriot authorities have imposed policies through the memorandum. first, an unacceptable cut in deposits was imposed, which led to a breakdown of the cypriot economy. since there are no programmes, there is no public spending, and even with this notorious 'juncker plan' in cyprus and greece and other countries no programme has been implemented, because the prerequisite - which is wrong - is that there should also be private investment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as the european commission's proposal is simply a codification of existing texts without changing their substance.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ this is a report that is part of the process of codifying european legislation, incorporating all the amendments that have been made from time to time and updating the legislation. we have voted in favour of the report because it is a purely procedural vote.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as the european commission's proposal is simply a codification of existing texts without changing their substance.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ this is a report that is part of the process of codifying european legislation, incorporating all the amendments that have been made from time to time and updating the legislation. we have voted in favour of the report because it is a purely procedural vote.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and consider that the conclusion of a sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia would clearly help the eu to achieve its objectives on combating iuu fishing and extend the common fisheries policy (cfp) objective of sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the european union fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) with liberia forms part of the union's wider policy of providing financial and technical support to foreign states in return for fishing rights. the agreement will be the first between the european union and liberia, whereas cooperation has so far only been possible through the united nations convention on the law of the sea. the union's objectives through this agreement include combating illegal and unregulated (iuu) fishing, which has contributed significantly to the reduction of the national income of liberian fishermen and the destruction of the country's marine ecosystem. the agreement also provides for the establishment of a fisheries agreement with the european union, which will be signed in the framework of the liberian fisheries agreement. in my vote, i support the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement with liberia, in the hope that this agreement will be put to good use to help combat illegal fishing, protect marine biodiversity and provide economic and social support for the country.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the through this protocol signed with liberia, the eu is entitled to access liberia's fishing zone in exchange for a lease, specific quantities that european fishermen will be entitled to fish and support for the development of sectoral fisheries policies for the country. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and agree with the rapporteur's position. the new protocol represents a major step forward compared to the previous one and the new commitments made by mauritania in terms of transparency and preferential access for the european fleet are welcomed, taking into account the bad experience of previous years, in which mauritania allowed foreign fleets to fish for cephalopods while denying access to the european fleet.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the new protocol signed between the eu and mauritania in july 2015 is valid for four years and concerns the right of european vessels to operate in mauritian waters. the new protocol provides for an annual eu financial contribution of €55 million, as opposed to €67 million under the previous agreement. a corresponding financial support of eur 16.5 million is provided to promote sustainable development in the fisheries sector and environmental protection in sensitive marine areas. the amount of financial assistance has been increased considerably since the previous agreement provided for an amount of eur 3 million for the same purpose. i therefore share the rapporteur's view that the new protocol is improved in many respects, since it promotes the development of the region by maintaining the 60% quota for black crew members on european vessels. this helps to provide jobs to black citizens while reducing unemployment and poverty in the country. this is very important, considering that mauritania is one of the poorest and least developed countries in the world with 42% of the population living below the poverty line.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the protocol signed with mauritania allows european fishing vessels to enter the country's fishing zone in exchange for a financial contribution, but also requires 60% of the fishing vessel's staff to be mauritanian. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the regions concerned.
in writing. ‒ we support the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of korea, of the other part, on a civilian global navigation satellite system, as we consider the republic of korea to be a country with considerable potential in the field of space technology and its applications.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the as a group, we are opposed to the navigation systems developed by the eu. the reasons are that they are already being used for military purposes despite declarations to the contrary, but also because they do not meet the objectives they set themselves (independence from the american gps). on the contrary, the americans have the right to block the eu's satellite navigation system. we voted against it for the above reasons.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and underline that a bottom-up approach and the involvement of local actors are crucial to achieving the objectives of cohesion policy.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the treaty of lisbon, in article 174, defines territorial cohesion as one of the union's main and fundamental objectives. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings: the programming defines two new instruments to contribute to territorial development, namely local development on the initiative of local communities (ldci) and integrated spatial investment (isi). the report states that the cipt will operate at subregional level and will be based on the initiative of local communities, which will be able to cooperate with both private and public bodies. the oct will also contribute to sustainable urban development by pooling funds from the various operational programmes. both territorial development tools face challenges such as the complexity of their implementation, their acceptance by local actors, lack of expertise, possible lack of flexibility and adequate guidance from the commission and finally the increase in administrative burden. i would nevertheless like to vote in favour of the report, believing that with a careful strategy these tools can make a significant contribution to achieving the objective of territorial development within the framework of cohesion policy.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the new cohesion policy framework for the 2014-2020 programming period places greater emphasis on the use of integrated and site-based approaches to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion. to achieve this, two new instruments were introduced for the 2014-2020 programming period: local development on the initiative of local communities (ldci) and integrated spatial investment (isi). i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of the bottom-up approach, since the involvement of local actors is crucial to achieving the objectives of cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as regulation (ec) no 184/2005 on balance of payments (bop), international trade in services (its) and foreign direct investment (fdi) statistics is part of the overall eu framework aimed at monitoring economic developments in individual member states and in the union as a whole. the production of reliable statistics in these fields plays a particularly important role in monitoring vital data such as developments in current accounts and financial flows within and outside the eu.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the regulation (ec) no 184/2005 concerning balance of payments (bop), international trade in services (its) and foreign direct investment (fdi) statistics aims to monitor the economic situation of the member states and of the union itself in general. monitoring financial flows plays a key role in all surveillance in order to ensure the consistency of member states' economic policies and the union's control of the implementation of the guidelines and, ultimately, to ensure the broader macroeconomic policy. increasing capital flows and their increasing complexity have now led to the need for a revision of the regulation with a view to increasing the transparency and level of detail of statistics, adding flexibility to take advantage of modern innovations that can make statistics relating to balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment more reliable. the regulation also needs to be amended to bring it into line with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. i support this resolution because i believe that transparency, as well as the level of detail in statistics, are vital tools for the union to ensure proper monitoring and monitoring of economic developments in the member states.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the report was more technical in nature, but we could not vote for it as even more responsibilities are being established centrally in brussels, as the main issue of the report was the change of the structure of a specific eu statistical office, and its integration into the central statistical office. we have no objection to statistics being compiled, which is why we have abstained in this report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and call on the commission to draw up the 'agenda for the eu's mountain regions', which should be the framework for international, crossborder and interregional policies.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the marginalisation of the union's mountain regions is a fact, since the vast majority of development policies are directed at lowland areas. i believe, however, that the difficulties which exist, such as the lack of specific infrastructure and the need for more expenditure due to the isolation of these areas, must be overcome if there is to be a systematic and correct exploitation of mountain areas based on their specificities. the natural wealth of mountains, which leads to an abundance of renewable energy sources, can help union policies aimed at protecting the environment. this will create new jobs, the so-called 'green' jobs in the report, which help to combat climate change. cohesion policy in mountain areas will also help to combat the poverty and social exclusion experienced by the inhabitants of these areas, with the ultimate aim of sustainable economic development in the mountains. i would therefore like to vote in favour of the resolution, since i am in favour of the need to draw up an agenda for the formulation of a policy for the union's mountain regions, which combines the various existing indirect policies relating to mountains, with the ultimate aim of achieving a more comprehensive strategy for the development of mountain areas.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report which adopts more targeted and coordinated policies for the eu's mountain regions, which are rarely at the centre of cohesion policy. this report calls for an eu mountain agenda and for the integration of the mountain dimension into future eu programmes and policies, in particular the european structural and investment funds. the eu's mountain regions can contribute to its objectives, such as in 'europe 2020'. the rich natural resources and advantages of mountain areas can create jobs by improving employment within the eu, in particular green jobs that help to combat climate change. it is also important to develop synergies between the various funds and measures (including rural development) so that the specificities of mountain areas are taken into account when preparing and examining operational programmes.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because we are in favour of social and economic cohesion in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in addition, the report tackles the issue by creating a definition of a specific group of mountain areas, an effort which can help to create targeted policies for these areas. we voted against the report.
s & d) and the madam president, mr moscovici, today too much has been said about the past and less about the present and the future. the question is very simple. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the second thing we have to look at is that, despite the mistakes that have been made, there have been some serious reforms. so the question is simple for all of us. will we help the greek people, who suffer and made sacrifices as a member of this family? we are not going to help the greek people who are opening their arms to the refugees at a time when many member states are erecting fences. as for the debt, i'll answer it as simply as i can: without debt relief to the extent that it becomes sustainable, growth through rational investment is not going to happen. investments in an economy with debt out of control are not done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
s & d) and the madam president, at a time when the member states of the european union are unable to reach an agreement on the resettlement of a few thousand refugees in their countries without showing the necessary solidarity, and at a time when erdogan is blackmailing europe in the worst possible way, lebanon and jordan have become reservoirs of millions of refugees ready to explode. it is estimated that about one million syrians have taken refuge in lebanon, making up a quarter of the population. lebanon and jordan are two countries with a refugee culture. lebanon already hosts 500,000 palestinians and another million in jordan, all victims of past israeli-palestinian conflicts and now they have to manage but 2.5 million syrians. but can they withstand such a load without becoming financially unstable, and for how long? lebanon's prime minister said that his country has so far spent a third of its gdp on refugees, while the king of jordan said that his country, which is implementing an imf austerity program, needs 2.5 billion euros a year to meet the basic needs of refugees. the need for european aid in lebanon and jordan is urgent and urgent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not going to be able to do anything about the situation in the middle east, and we are not going to be able to do anything about it. instead of working together to find a solution, israel continues to settle, to displace people and to destroy even the barricades that were erected with european union funds. they are razing every shelter where palestinians are housed who are trying to survive in inhuman conditions. they turn palestinians into refugees back in their own homeland. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the european union respects its principles and declarations, it should suspend the association agreement until israel stops violating article 2, which clearly states the obligation to respect human rights. it is outrageous, at a time when there is so much talk about dealing with the refugee crisis, that the european union should be indifferent to the palestinians ... (the president interrupts)
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we consider it necessary to review an appropriate regime for commodity traders and the prudential supervision of investment firms. this is necessary to ensure the development of a consistent prudential framework for all types of investment firms
s&d), in writing. ‒ the regulation (eu) no 575/2013 on capital requirements applies to both credit institutions and investment firms. articles 493 (1) and 498 (1) of the regulation provide that commodity dealers are exempted from large exposures and own funds requirements. those two exemptions expire in 2017 and a new prudential regulatory framework should be put in place which takes into account the specific circumstances and risks faced by commodity traders in their business. according to the report, the definition includes those who 'only trade commodity derivatives' and those who 'trade commodity derivatives merely as an ancillary activity to commodity production'. the commission has decided to examine and define a new framework for the application of the exemptions for traders and a more general regime for the prudential supervision of investment firms. the complexity of the procedure may delay the completion of the new framework and there is a risk that the existing regulation will continue to apply without the above exemptions. i therefore think it is right to extend the validity of the two exemptions beyond their expiry until the adoption of the new regulatory framework.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ in this report we have taken a stand of abstention, because we are interested in regulating investment funds which trade in commodities, but we disagree with the framework of the capital requirements directive which we voted against as a group as it leaves too many loopholes open for investment funds to abuse the law.
in writing. ‒ we support the draft legislative resolution and believe that it is important to have close and effective cooperation between the supervisory authorities at national and eu level.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report which provides for new rules of governance for the eu police service, europol, so that it can step up efforts to combat terrorism, cybercrime and other criminal offences and be able to respond more quickly to threats. the most important thing in the report is that the new powers and responsibilities of the agency are accompanied by strong safeguards for data protection and democratic oversight tools. europol is now given a strengthened mandate to ensure that it is fully equipped to deal with the increase in cross-border crime and terrorist threats. the new europol rules are a strong response we can give to the threat of terrorism.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be able to accept it. the report, however, seems to have some positive elements, following pressure from the progressive forces in parliament. such elements are the increase in the protection of personal data, and the hierarchy of europol's jurisdiction below the security forces of each member state. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. for these reasons we voted against.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report as we believe it brings improvements in particular with regard to admission procedures, equal treatment rights, students' rights to access the labour market during their studies, mobility within the eu and procedural guarantees.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the despite the positive elements of the report, which gives young students and researchers an immediate right to freedom of movement and an increase in the working hours to which they are entitled in parallel with their studies, the rights of unpaid internal assistants are not adequately safeguarded; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to refuse a young person's application for a traineeship, voluntary service, etc., leaving the door open to discriminatory rejection. for these reasons we have maintained a policy of abstinence.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the cohesion policy, with a budget of over €350 billion, is the only source of public investment for some member states. cohesion policy has a strong impact in many areas. in particular, it provides the necessary investment framework and strategy for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. however, two years have passed since the start of the new programming period, and there have been delays in the implementation of cohesion policy. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i therefore voted in favour of the report on accelerating the implementation of cohesion policy, which calls on the commission to provide, for the 2014-2020 programming period, information on the obstacles faced by member states in implementing cohesion policy and an assessment of the impact of the fulfilment of ex ante eligibility criteria on the effective implementation of the policy.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the resolution contains a number of positive elements in terms of simplifying the procedures by which final beneficiaries (see member states) receive grants from the funds and also in terms of further supporting economically vulnerable areas. however, there are references to the promotion and implementation of structural reforms through policies and programmes (task force for better implementation, better regulation strategy) which we find diametrically opposed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore took a stand of abstention.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr timmermans said that the asylum application could be examined on the islands, i suppose, when the refugees leave turkey. we cannot do that when there are tens of thousands of applicants, let's be honest. there is no possibility either from the european union or from greece. there is a common agreement on compensation by some member states, that is, those who agree to take some of these people who are seeking asylum. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a way that is compatible with the common market. i would like to conclude by saying that we must have a plan b for refugees, and that plan can only be the rebuilding, in parallel with the aid to turkey, of a city or two inside syria, so that when people are ready, they can return. there's no other way past him.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. with all that is being said about turkey today, is it possible to continue to see turkey as a reliable and necessary partner in the european union? the european union, a great, strong and well-organised union, cannot be held hostage by any turkey, and cannot be blackmailed, and cannot tolerate turkey's destruction of everything and everyone. and the most basic and important element, something that must be made clear here: can we continue to treat turkey in this way when it does not respect either the institutions, nor the principles, nor the agreements of the european union? i would challenge you to name at least one agreement that turkey has respected with the european union and whether you think that the agreement on visa liberalization criteria can be respected.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what many people here may think, i believe that mr erdogan will change the law on terrorism, but he will change it when the law has exhausted its usefulness. when, using this law, he will expel the kurdish mps from the parliament in order to change the constitution and take the power he needs. and he'll change the law when that law has run out of steam and when he's thrown in jail those he hasn't yet managed to put in. we are in favour of the 72 criteria being implemented, of course, but we will not be blind. i do not believe that any of these criteria can, under any circumstances, be implemented for cyprus without a solution to the cyprus problem. without diverging from our position as gue on the readmission agreement, we would like to know whether there are any assurances that turkey will implement this agreement with cyprus as well. i would like to conclude by saying that we are differentiating our attitude to turkish politics from our attitude to turkish citizens! the rights of the turkish people are what we are defending!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: my dear colleague, i have a very simple question: we are a union of 28 member states. you'll agree with that. turkey has obligations towards the union on 72 criteria. the commission's assessment of these matters has not met many of them, and, moreover, turkey does not recognise the republic of cyprus, does not recognise its borders, and this is reflected in the report itself. who are you with ? with the union or with erdogan? that's my question.
the commission i believe that with turkey's history and record of unreliability in implementing agreements with the european union, and also through its actions and omissions, is there at this moment even one fellow mep who believes that turkey will ever implement in practice the 72 criteria which, by telegraph, it has begun to apply on paper? is there anyone who can trust turkey at this moment in terms of its credibility, when in 2005 it got the ticket to start accession negotiations by promising and committing to implement the ankara protocol and for eleven years it has been mocking the european union and mocking all its member countries and the european parliament itself? does anyone think that turkey will respect the european parliament and the european union when it is insulted and provoked on a daily basis by erdogan and other turkish actors? i think that another very important issue is how an agreement will be implemented when turkey does not recognise a country that is among the 28 - and you are joining her - and the readmission agreement cannot be implemented, since turkey not only does not recognise a border for cyprus, but is at the moment illegally violating its territorial integrity, threatening its eez, violating human rights. legally, morally, really how can this agreement of 72 criteria be implemented? so we must not make fun of anyone and say it clearly. this agreement with this country cannot be implemented in practice.
s & d) and the i would like to begin by saying that my intervention is limited to the 72 criteria of the evaluation presented by the commission. we are a family of 28 member states and we are a family to which turkey has undertaken to meet 72 technical criteria. i shall not refer to political criteria, but to those, ladies and gentlemen, which the commission has already decided are fulfilled. so they remain strictly technical. criterion 15: turkey should also cooperate with its neighbouring eu member states in managing their borders. turkey does not even recognise the borders of the republic of cyprus. criterion 44: turkey must respect the judicial authorities of the other 28 member states. turkey does not even respect the decisions of the european courts, especially on cyprus. you decide which side you choose to be on. with erdogan or with the principles and values of the european union?
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report as a positive step towards enhancing transparency.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and express our deep concern and dissatisfaction with the results of various studies showing high levels of misleading labelling for fishery products sold on the eu market.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the motion for a resolution and reiterate the importance of a strategic eu-china partnership in which trade and investment play an important role, and which should be based on reciprocity and mutual benefits.
in writing. ‒ we support the motion for a resolution and stress that the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals are a renewed international commitment to eradicate poverty, to redefine and modernise our development strategies for the next 15 years and to deliver results.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the resolution is only promises based on institutional solutions and tried and tested recipes, such as further engagement and initiatives by the eeas. it contains no criticism of eu policies on interventions in third countries and links development with security. we have abstained because we remain committed to sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ we support the report which restates parliament's position in favour of mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat on processed food. that indication should also be made compulsory for meat other than beef and pork and meat of sheep, goats and poultry, for milk and milk used as an ingredient in dairy products, as well as for unprocessed food, for food consisting of only one ingredient and for ingredients representing more than 50% of the food.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we believe that an integrated approach to the issue of gender equality and reconciliation of work and family life in future eu legislation will bring coherence and transparency to the effort and help promote gender-based reconciliation of work and family life.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the parental leave directive (96/34/eu) was originally adopted in 1996 and adapted in 2010 (2010/18/eu) following a new agreement between member states. however, there is a need to modernise it, since it does not correspond in principle to the present social and economic reality, and there are also divergent practices in the member states, which causes a lack of uniformity in its application. although the commission has not taken the initiative to evaluate the parental leave directive, the eurofound executive agency, together with researchers and experts from the member states, has produced an evaluation report. the study concluded that there is a mismatch in the use of parental leave compared with the other two types of leave available, namely maternity leave and paternity leave. the use of parental leave by fathers was also found to be limited, as there is a reduced remuneration during the period. for the above reasons, i would like to vote in favour of this report, since i agree that the directive should be revised in terms of duration, remuneration and scope. i also agree that there should be a directive on paternity leave, which has not yet been done.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the parental leave not only contributes to gender equality and women's access to employment but also allows both parents to meet their obligations towards their children. however, in recent years only 2.7% of fathers have taken parental leave. in addition, the use of parental leave varies from country to country. i voted in favour of the report by mrs maria arena, which calls for the framework agreement on parental leave to be modernised and improved. we ask the commission to extend the minimum duration of parental leave from four to at least six months in order to improve the balance between family and professional life. parental leave should be an opportunity, not a hindrance.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the report as it contains very positive elements regarding the extension of parental leave.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and call on member states to introduce strict criminal sanctions for the crimes of trafficking in human beings, modern slavery and human exploitation. in addition, we stress that prevention is crucial to tackling trafficking in human beings and that is why member states must ensure that they make every effort to ensure that there are no victims in the first place.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the trafficking in human beings, regardless of gender, is a flagrant violation of the fundamental rights and human dignity of victims (article 5 (3) of the eu charter of fundamental rights). victims of such acts suffer irreparable damage that often follows them for life. the fight against the crime of trafficking in human beings must be a primary concern of the union through targeted policies that are implemented immediately and in practice. the need for immediate action has also been highlighted by the current refugee crisis, which has given impetus to such illegal actions. it also highlighted the lack of appropriate tools on the part of the union to tackle and eliminate this crime. this resolution will contribute positively to improving the policy response to trafficking in human beings by advocating the immediate implementation of directive 2011/36/eu, which contains provisions concerning both the fight against and the protection of victims. special attention is given to women victims of trafficking in human beings, who account for 80% of the total number, and to strengthening their support services. finally, the directive requires the commission to submit reports assessing the measures taken by states to combat trafficking in human beings and the criminalisation of the use of services which are the object of trafficking in human beings.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the over 30,000 victims of trafficking in human beings were recorded in the eu between 2010 and 2012, 80% of whom were women. children account for about 16 percent of recorded victims, and girls for 13 percent. women and girls account for up to 95% of victims of sexual exploitation, while the majority of victims of labour exploitation are men (71%). in addition, with the "explosion" of migration flows, according to europol data, around 10,000 unaccompanied children have disappeared since arriving in the eu in 2015. it has been found that european legislation on the protection of victims of trafficking in human beings is not being applied properly. i voted in favour of the report calling on the member states to step up efforts to protect victims of trafficking in human beings and to take measures to prevent and provide assistance and support. vulnerable victims must be identified quickly and given the necessary support.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. our objective remains and is a top priority to have a functioning energy market that is beneficial to citizens. i therefore believe that the objective of the third energy package is to create a truly competitive, transparent and consumer-friendly retail energy market. unfortunately, however, it has not yet been fully implemented by all member states. this is reflected in the high levels of market concentration, the non-transfer of wholesale cost reduction to retail prices and the low levels of switching and consumer satisfaction. the objective of consumer-oriented services remains unchanged.
the commission the report on the single market strategy is a very important and comprehensive report which i believe will be a stepping stone for the years ahead. it is a very comprehensive and very important report by our dear colleague mrs comi, who deserves to be congratulated on her comprehensive work on such an important subject. it is a report which is essentially aimed at economic development, which will lead to the prosperity of the peoples of the european union. but it is much more about creating more opportunities for citizens and for small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is particularly important for consumers to be aware that it is inconceivable that products on the single market should not indicate their geographical origin. essentially these products don't have the familiar "made in" identity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the geographical indications are not used in the same way as the geographical indications. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is not discriminated against. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and practical support means recording the geographical origin, recording the data that is needed for consumers to be fully informed. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations with the countries of the former soviet union, and the european union has been involved in the negotiations with the countries of the former soviet union, and the european union has been involved in the negotiations with the countries of the former soviet union. there's been a misdirection. the report is a response to the misrepresentation and falsification of the facts, and supports the labelling and the indication of the geographical origin of products.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ the we support the report and believe that it has become clear that the underlying innovation, distributed ledger technology (dlt), is expected to have a significant impact on the financial sector and beyond. as investments in dlt are skyrocketing and some applications could quickly become systemic, the significant opportunities and not negligible risks involved make this first report of the european parliament on virtual currencies and dlt a timely endeavour. we believe that there needs to be smart legislation on dlt technology.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the issue of virtual currencies is one that has recently been of concern to cypriot society. despite the bad experiences in cyprus, virtual currencies continue to develop in the european union. we voted against the report because it does not take a position for or against these currencies, but it does not allow the european commission to investigate the impact and prospects of these currencies.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the financial sector has been greatly affected in recent years after the introduction of the first electronic currency (bitcoin). such technology, and in particular distributed ledger technology (dlt), provides the means for secure recording of transactions of all kinds. however, i believe that there is still a lot to be done to ensure that dlt technology develops in a controlled way, which makes this a topical issue for the european parliament. the aim of this report is to adopt a smart european legislation on virtual currencies and distributed ledger technology, which is flexible in order to promote development and evolution in this area. but innovation requires the right foundations, with the help of 'technical expertise', as the report itself says. the report therefore proposes the establishment of a horizontal dlt task force to provide the regulatory capacity needed to create the legislation. i would like to vote in favour of the above proposals because i believe that virtual currencies and dlt technology can make a positive contribution to the economic well-being of the union by reducing both transaction costs and user access costs.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the issue of virtual currencies is one that has recently been of concern to cypriot society. despite the bad experiences in cyprus, virtual currencies continue to develop in the european union. we voted against the report because it does not take a position for or against these currencies, but it does not allow the european commission to investigate the impact and prospects of these currencies.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we consider that the egf/2015/010 fr/moryglobal application for a financial contribution from the egf following redundancies in moryglobal sas in france meets the requirements applicable for determining a financial contribution from the egf. the redundancies are due to the continuing major structural changes in the pattern of world trade due to globalisation.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted to withdraw funds from the eu globalisation fund to be given to the displaced workers to support their retraining. the company in question has laid off more than 2000 workers and closed 54 factories in france, while the french state has tried at all costs to prevent its closure.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the company in question has laid off over 2000 workers and closed 54 factories in france, at the same time as the french state has tried at all costs to prevent its closure. although this tactic was a scandal, we could not vote against the withdrawal of funds from the eu globalisation fund to be given to the displaced workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we consider that, in accordance with all the applicable provisions of the egf regulation, the conditions for granting a financial contribution from the egf are met. greece's request concerns 557 workers made redundant by the larisa abee supermarket.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of releasing funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund to support workers made redundant. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the larissa supermarket case is unfortunately yet another tragic case of a cooperative closing in greece due to the harsh neoliberal austerity policies imposed through the memoranda. we voted in favour of the release of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the workers made redundant.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report on the waiver of the colleague's immunity, taking into account that the vercelli deputy prosecutor for primary prosecutions forwarded a request for permission to obtain data from telephone companies on the conversations recorded from a telephone number used by gianluca buonanno.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report on the waiver of the immunity of mep gianluca buonanno.
in writing. ‒ we support the draft legislative resolution as it is necessary to deal with the emergency situation sweden has entered due to a sudden influx of third country nationals on its territory due to the strong shift in migration flows.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report proposes that special measures be taken in favour of sweden because of its attitude to refugees. we fully recognise that sweden has played a key role in dealing with the refugee crisis, and has welcomed a large number of refugees to its territory, which we welcome. we are even clear in our position when we ask all eu member states to act in the same way and to assume their responsibilities for support and solidarity with both refugees and those member states which have borne the brunt of the refugee waves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that the appropriate attitude is to put pressure on those states which do not do what is required of them, and not to take special measures against those which do what is required of them. that is why we voted against the report.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the on the one hand, we fully recognise that sweden has played a key role in dealing with the refugee crisis, and has welcomed a large number of refugees to its territory, which we welcome. we are even clear in our position when we ask all eu member states to act in the same way and to assume their responsibilities for support and solidarity with both refugees and those member states which have borne the brunt of the refugee waves. however, as a group we voted against sweden's special treatment of refugees. responsibilities must be shared among all according to their abilities and member states must show solidarity with one another. if some states do not behave in this way, they must be pressured to do so, not start giving special arrangements to states that do.
in writing. ‒ we support efforts to reach a new us-eu agreement on the transfer of european data to the us. we stress, however, that the new agreement proposed, known as the privacy shield, should guarantee effective protection of the privacy rights of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour as the report notes the need for effective protection of the fundamental rights and personal data of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and believe that the ultimate goal should be an economy based entirely on renewable energy sources. in this context, the energy union should focus on the interests of current and future generations of citizens.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report includes both positive and negative reports. the problem is that there is a decentralisation of energy management with responsibility shifting from the state to smes, consumers and local communities. the call for the states to implement the third energy package immediately, which we have expressed our disagreement with as it does not meet the needs of society, is also negative. the proposals being developed are aimed at promoting the privatisation of energy, with negative consequences, of course, primarily for citizens but also for the state and society. on the positive side, the objective of combating energy poverty through a specific relationship plan and a focus on access to affordable energy as a basic social right. the protection of consumers from abusive unfair market practices as well as the proposal to ensure that states have a strong legal framework to put an end to the charging of overdue bills are positive elements. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the this report concerns only household energy consumers and not industrial consumers, who should be subject to a separate legislative regime because of their substantial differences. in the course of the evolution of the traditional centralised energy production system, we are moving towards a more decentralised and efficient system based on renewable energy sources, since this is our ultimate goal, the full exploitation of renewable energy sources. at the same time, the energy union must have as its main objective the provision of energy to citizens at affordable prices, but at the same time in good quality. the protection of citizens must be a priority in tackling unfair competition and energy poverty. i therefore believe that despite the progress made, more effort is needed to achieve a balanced energy union combining a competitive environment with consumer-friendly prices. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report includes problematic references such as the position of decentralising energy management with responsibility shifting from the state to smes, consumers and local communities. the aim is to produce and market energy by citizens themselves acting as investors in order to achieve a competitive energy system in a free competitive energy market. it also stresses that the states must immediately implement the third energy package, which we have disagreed with as it does not meet the needs of society. the proposals being developed also promote the privatization of the energy commodity, with negative consequences for the state and society. but there are also positive reports. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electricity from renewable sources. it stresses the need to protect consumers from abusive unfair market practices and suggests that states ensure a strong legal framework to put an end to the charging of overdue bills. it also stresses that well-targeted social tariffs should be promoted as they are vital for vulnerable low-income citizens. that's why we abstained.
in writing. ‒ we abstain, as the report contains positive elements, but also contains friction points.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because it contains important elements. the report rightly points out that the economic crisis has affected women more, particularly when they are pensioners, migrants or disabled. it is also noted that women still hold the majority of precarious and parttime jobs. the report also documents the continuing inequalities affecting women and urges the member states and the commission to make efforts to provide equal opportunities and opportunities for all in the areas of work, social security, pay, education, and childcare and to stop the impoverishment of people.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the poverty and social exclusion are today serious social problems which must be tackled on a pan-european basis. the eu must provide the regulatory framework and initiatives so that we move in the right direction. the increase in the proportion of people living below the poverty line is worrying and requires us to act immediately. it is also a fact that women bear the consequences of poverty more than men, especially if they are single mothers or disabled. this is also reflected in the occupational sector, where there is a wage gap, as women try to combine family and professional obligations. the resolution is an initiative against inequality against women in areas such as employment, social security and pay. i would like to vote in favour of this initiative to contribute to the effort to achieve social justice. i think it's also a broader way of reducing global poverty in a broader context.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the today, 122 million people in europe are at risk of poverty. women, like children, are among the most vulnerable groups to fall into poverty. the number of women in poverty has consistently exceeded that of men, with some 65 million women currently living in poverty. the economic crisis and austerity policies have led to an increase in the gender gap in the labour market, with women being hit harder. in addition, gender discrimination in the labour market of the member states, covering various aspects such as employment, remuneration, social benefits and pensions, is one of the root causes of women being at higher risk of poverty. i voted in favour of the report because it contains a number of measures to combat social exclusion and gender inequality, which lead to poverty for women. in particular, measures are needed to promote work-life balance, high-quality public services to combat poverty, especially women's poverty, and the introduction of a child guarantee which ensures free healthcare, free education, decent housing and adequate nutrition for every child in europe.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report rightly points out that the economic crisis has affected women more, particularly when they are pensioners, immigrants or disabled. it is also rightly pointed out that women still hold the majority of precarious and parttime jobs. both the gender pay gap and the pension gap burden women who face economic difficulties and cause daily uncertainty and impoverishment. it is a fact that neoliberal austerity policies towards workers, such as wage cuts and benefit cuts, hit women twice as hard, who statistically experience poverty more than men. while women are thus subject to the double exploitation of this system (as workers and as women), the economic crisis is leading to a further deepening of class differences and widening of inequalities. the report highlights the continuing inequalities affecting women and urges the member states and the commission to work towards providing equal opportunities and opportunities for all in the areas of work, social security, pay, education and childcare and to stop the impoverishment of people. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report as we believe that the removal of non-tariff barriers will help businesses across the eu, but also consumers.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the although the report contains some positive references (e-government and the fight against red tape), we nevertheless consider that, in addition to the general difference in our approach to the single market, there are also differences in the need for certain barriers. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of food, such as consumer protection or even gmo legislation, which in some countries is stronger than in others. we therefore voted against.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the it is not disputed that the single market has been achieved through effective cooperation between the member states of the union. the removal of tariff barriers to trade is also an integral part of the single market. in contrast, non-tariff barriers have not yet been removed, which creates a heterogeneous pattern of state practices and the union thus lacks a common policy in this area. it is reasonable and understandable that there cannot be a complete abolition of non-tariff duties, since under the basic principle of subsidiarity, member states have the first say on matters which do not constitute european primary law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. however, the aim of removing many non-tariff barriers is to reduce the protective measures by member states so as to open up domestic markets even more and to benefit businesses across europe, as well as consumers, from lower prices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report calls for the complete abolition of tariff barriers to strengthen and complete the single market. in addition to our concerns about the policies and objectives served by the single market, we must also recognise that certain tariff barriers are particularly important. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the same rules to all types of goods and services, including those which are not covered by the directive. the barriers to genetically modified products are also important. we therefore voted against the report because we disagree with the general framework in which tariff barriers are managed and with the objectives served by the abolition of tariff barriers in the single market. we also voted against because we think it is important to respect the specificities of the member states which lead to the creation of certain barriers.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, stressing that the completion of the single market is a fundamental political priority in the process of european integration.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because it makes no reference to solving the big challenges that eu citizens face on a daily basis. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the policies pursued in the single market exacerbate the breakdown of the real economy, the disparities and asymmetries in growth, tax evasion, privatisation and the deregulation of trade relations. the single market and competitiveness are used as arguments to justify attacks on workers' rights, social inequalities, labour deregulation, wage devaluation and increasingly precarious employment, while fairer tax policies are being broken down or obstructed. the report also makes a particularly negative reference to the need to promote the negotiations on the transatlantic ttip agreement within the single market. we have therefore voted against the report.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the report rightly makes important points to highlight the problems of developing countries. it is a fact that 1.5 billion people still live in poverty and experience deprivation in terms of health, living standards, education. the majority are women. we believe that eu development policy cohesion is a key element in the implementation of the new agenda for sustainable development. it is recalled that the sdgs apply to both developing and developed countries and must be fully integrated into eu decision-making, both externally and internally. it is noted that some states have established an effective inter-ministerial coordination mechanism with a specific mandate for policy cohesion for sustainable development. it is right that member states monitor and exchange good practices adopted by other states.
the commission the european parliament has a duty to be clear on this issue. we must support and shield consumers, producers and small and mediumsized enterprises from the unfair practices of the various large companies in the food chain and in trade. i believe that we are all consumers and we know that the weak link in this food chain is the consumer, first of all the producer, but also the small and mediumsized enterprises. this long food supply chain plays an important role in economies and society, accounting for 4.3% of the european union's gross national product and 17% of smes. we are therefore supporting, strengthening and sealing up the framework, strengthening competition law and the institutional framework which must be in favour of the consumer, protecting him, respecting his rights, providing him with great transparency. with all these tools i believe we can overcome unfair practices in this important and sensitive area which has to do with virtually all of us as consumers and with the food we are supplied with every day.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, since there is often talk here of a great deal of unfair competition within the european union, i think we must be clear. i come from a small country, which is a financial centre, cyprus. its comparative advantage is that it has low corporate tax rates; we're at 12%. that's what healthy competition requires. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union countries are one thing, but tax havens are another, and we must fight them. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of tax havens, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of tax havens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. madam president, i would like to ask a question. it has been said that we must be even more ambitious. my question is very simple: we are not the united states of europe as the united states of america is. in the united states of america the states have the right to determine their tax policy. i think you will agree with me that if we want to be effective, let's stick to the oecd agreed basis for beps. if you want to go beyond that, i think we're entering very uncharted waters. do you agree or disagree ?
the commission i think that we are all against tax evasion, against tax avoidance, and that we are all committed to fighting tax havens. but i think, listening to the discussions, that in our overzealous effort to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance, we may actually end up backfiring on the european union itself, and instead of blacklists being created and companies avoiding tax havens, they will end up avoiding the european union itself. we'll end up hurting our own businesses. in the end, we will be hurting the same consumers, the same citizens, the same gnp of our countries. we must be very careful. i hear about tax equalization and flat tax rates. these were applied to centralized systems in the former communist countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what will the companies do? they will all leave the european union, they will go to other countries and we will in effect be putting the united states of america, the third countries outside the european union and their tax havens in a very favourable position. we are essentially going to be blacklisted in our attempt to crack down on tax evasion and tax avoidance. i think we should be clear: i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the taxation of capital, and that it has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the taxation of capital. and we must say this: the european union has the strictest rules on tax transparency, on its control systems, which are not shared by other competing countries. we must not under any circumstances undermine the competitiveness of financial services in the european union. just as we have some countries that are strong in industry, we have some other countries that are strong financial centers. well, we're not going to hit them; to please who?
s&d), in writing. in the united states of america each state sets its own tax practices. the eu is made up of member states with the right to formulate their own tax policy, which we ask them to harmonise so that we have the characteristics of a federal state. if we were the united states of europe, we would have implemented many other things before we studied common tax practices. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, which was adopted by the council on 14 june, is designed to ensure that the right to equal treatment for men and women is guaranteed in all member states. such advanced measures are the so-called switch over clause for non-exemption from taxation of income from the sale of shares in a third country and exit taxation which provides that when the tax residence of a company is transferred from one country to another, tax should be paid in proportion to the fair market value. the directive essentially abolishes the comparative advantage of member states in the context of free competition and operates to the detriment of small countries which have for decades built their economies by creating a related comparative advantage, without even proposing a compensatory framework.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we agree with the rapporteur that ratification of the fctc protocol will benefit public health and strengthen the fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime at international level.
in writing. ‒ the in 2005, the first global framework convention on tobacco trade control (fctc) was signed by the world health organisation with 180 contracting states, including the eu. the protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products was signed in 2012 under the authority of article 15 of the fctc as part of this wider convention. the protocol has not yet entered into force, since it requires the signature of at least 40 states to enter into force. i believe it is our duty to combat the illicit trade in tobacco and cigarettes in the union, which endangers the health of european citizens. at the same time, by fighting the illicit trade in tobacco, we are also helping to combat tax evasion, since the union loses a large part of its revenue from non-payment of taxes by tobacco traders. since much of the illicit tobacco trade is carried out by non-eu countries, a global control regime is also the best and most effective solution to eliminate this phenomenon. i therefore vote against this recommendation, as i believe that the eu should sign the protocol to eradicate illicit tobacco trade as soon as possible so that it can be implemented immediately.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report to give the commission the green light to sign the world health organisation's protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the illicit trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we believe that the eu should support technological harmonisation at global level.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because we have always been in favour of the introduction of uniform technical specifications at both european and international level.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation has created an increasing interconnection of international markets, with the result that industrial production is carried out through international markets. in this context, the eu must facilitate trade in order to enhance the competitiveness of the european market. the industry of wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts provides major economic resources in the union as well as a significant number of jobs for european citizens. this is also demonstrated by the fact that the eu is one of the largest vehicle manufacturers in the world and the focus of private investment in vehicle technology. for the above reasons, an international regulatory agreement in the automotive sector can help to ensure transparency and a healthy competitive environment in this sector. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. i would like to vote in favour of this recommendation on the harmonization of technological techniques at world level as part of international regulatory cooperation within the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) so that there is coordination in this direction by the next unece meeting on the subject.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we consider that croatia's participation in the trade agreement is a natural consequence of its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ we decided to abstain from the vote, as we are against the eu-colombia-peru agreement for economic and political reasons.
in writing. ‒ the the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in 2012 and entered into force in 2013 for both countries. the additional protocol to the trade agreement is a consequence of the accession of croatia to the european union, so that croatia as a member state can enjoy the rights and obligations arising from the agreement. the agreement covers trade in agricultural and other industrial products between the contracting countries and includes regulatory provisions on the framework for trade such as clauses on competition, intellectual property, the origin of goods and health conditions. in the absence of a recommendation, i believe that croatia has the right to participate in this agreement, which is binding on the other member states of the union, otherwise it would be an unfavourable discrimination against an equal eu member country.
in writing. ‒ the we support the report because the acts to be adopted do not affect the rights of non-participating member states and do not affect the internal market. we consider that this enhanced cooperation in the field of the property rights of international couples is fully in line with the objectives of the union and in the interest of its citizens.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because it makes it easier for foreign/international couples to live in a member state of which they are not nationals and because this enhanced cooperation between member states will be defined between them.
in writing. ‒ the legislative acts of the union in the field of family law shall be adopted by the council acting unanimously in cooperation with the european parliament. as regards international couples, the commission has proposed in early 2016 a plan for enhanced cooperation in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on matrimonial property regimes of both spouses and registered partners. in order to reach agreement on enhanced cooperation between member states in the field of international couples there are certain prerequisite criteria which should be met. for example, the agreement should be compatible with european primary law and respect the rights of non-participating states. finally, enhanced cooperation in relation to property rights of international couples should not affect the internal market and create problems for trade between the member states of the union or unfair competition between them in such matters. in examining the commission's proposal, i consider that the above conditions are met and therefore i would like to vote in favour of this recommendation for the adoption of enhanced cooperation in the field of property law for international couples, since it is in line with the principles of the union's treaties.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the draft council decision approving enhanced cooperation in the area of international jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of property relations of international couples covering both matrimonial property relations and property relations of registered partners was approved by parliament's legal affairs committee and put to a vote in plenary. as the explanatory statement shows, although unanimity is required in the council on family law matters, parliament's intervention activates enhanced cooperation. the vote was therefore a procedural one and my vote in favour merely confirmed an earlier decision by parliament to use this cooperation.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report on enhanced cooperation in the area of property relations for international couples, because it would generally make it easier for them to live in a member state of which they are not nationals. the report also stresses that this enhanced cooperation will be defined by the member states themselves and will not be imposed by a directive from brussels.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we believe that the european union should immediately ratify the world health organisation's protocol on illicit trade in tobacco, which will encourage and strengthen international cooperation, the exchange of valid information, cooperation in the fields of technology and law enforcement, and mutual legal and administrative assistance.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of judicial cooperation between member states, where they so wish, under the protocol on enhanced cooperation in the field of tobacco products. the protocol also makes special reference to the responsibilities of the tobacco industry both in terms of illicit trade and public health, providing for specific clauses for the industry.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of judicial cooperation between member states who so wish under the protocol on enhanced cooperation in the field of tobacco products. the protocol also makes special reference to the responsibilities of the tobacco industry both in terms of illicit trade and public health, providing for specific clauses for the industry.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we believe that directive 2014/65/eu should be amended
in writing. ‒ as a group, we disagreed with the mifid and mifir regulation, which were supposedly responding to the crisis through the change of rules on markets for financial instruments, market abuse and securities settlement. in this context, we also voted against the changes proposed in the tripartite dialogue between parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ as a group, we disagreed with directive 2014/65/eu (mifid) and regulation (eu) no 600/2014 (mifir), which allegedly responded to the crisis through the change of rules on markets in financial instruments, market abuse and securities settlement. in this context, we also voted against the changes proposed in the tripartite dialogue between parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we consider the regulations contained in it to be important legislation adopted in the wake of the financial crisis for securities markets, investment intermediaries and trading venues.
in writing. ‒ as a group, we disagreed with the mifid and mifir regulation, which were supposedly responding to the crisis through the change of rules on markets for financial instruments, market abuse and securities settlement. in this context, we also voted against the changes proposed in the tripartite dialogue between parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ as a group, we disagreed with directive 2014/65/eu (mifid) and regulation (eu) no 600/2014 (mifir), which allegedly responded to the crisis through the change of rules on markets in financial instruments, market abuse, and securities settlement. in this context, we also voted against the changes proposed in the tripartite dialogue between parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ we support the appointment of rimantas šadžius, as the committee on budgetary control considers him to be qualified.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and underline the significant progress in development policy coherence applied to the eu's external action. the eu should give priority to stabilising its neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ the the report contains a number of positive elements but it also raises very problematic issues, such as the link between development policies and the common security and defence policy (csdp). we are missing key points such as the increase in development funds and also that the wealth in third countries must be the product of their exploitation and not of foreign states and companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in view of the above, we considered this abstinence to be appropriate.
in writing. ‒ the the european commission's report on policy coherence for development, published last august, addressed the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, of which policy coherence is a part. policy cohesion for development (pcd) is an eu initiative which has yet to be extended internationally. it is based mainly on the idea that developed countries should be friendly to developing countries and not introduce policies that are hostile to them. the aim must be to spread such policies internationally. as the subject is purely political, there should be an effort to cooperate with joint planning and coordination on the part of the union so that recommendations on sps issues are introduced directly by the member states. the 2015 report is a positive step in the right direction to improve legislation on the subject. at the same time, new tools for promoting the cap, such as impact assessments of development policies, have begun to be developed. in the absence of this initiative, i regard trade, security and immigration as a priority area of the cap, with the ultimate objective of stabilising the union's neighbouring countries.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and call on the eu to address all the weaknesses of the nafsn as identified in the report, to act to enhance transparency and governance and to ensure that actions undertaken in this context are consistent with development policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because it contains important data and positions on food security and nutrition in third countries. it stresses the need to support the development of local communities, to take measures to protect the environment, and to oppose the reckless exploitation promoted by large companies. finally, it places all development and food security and nutrition measures within the framework of the development objectives set by the international community.
in writing. ‒ the the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa is an initiative to provide financial support for investment in agriculture by bringing together both private and public actors to ensure food security and nutrition in africa. each member country of the alliance essentially takes responsibility for implementing the initiative in an african country and thus establishes a framework for cooperation between them. i believe that the eu can play a key role in achieving this objective, while also helping to strengthen family farming by smallholder farmers in africa and, more broadly, in the fight against poverty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive on the carriage of goods by road. i therefore agree with the report that we should be dealing mainly with agro-ecology and family farming, taking into account the needs of the local population, rather than purely with large-scale technocratic industrial farming. i would therefore like to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and underline the importance of international accounting standards for improving competition and removing investment barriers on a global scale.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and note that the problem is often not a lack of funding but rather how funds are allocated and what other resources are used.
in writing. ‒ the report refers to peace support operations and the eu and un commitment to cooperation with the african union but from a militaristic and neo-colonial perspective. it calls on the states parties to increase their contributions to better policing the african continent and it develops a neo-colonial view of africa which is based on the logic that there can be no development - meaning of course capitalist development - without security, which of course we disagree with, since this is the pretext that leads to intervention in third countries, which is why we are opposed to the report.
in writing. ‒ the i consider that peace support operations (psos) are a key tool in dealing with serious crises such as armed conflicts in countries with high rates of such operations. part of operations is recovery as well as peacekeeping by dealing with unforeseen situations and challenges. given the current situation, where world peace is under serious threat and especially in african countries such as somalia and nigeria, where there is an increased flow of terrorist groups, we as the eu should invest in such initiatives, which will contribute in the longer term to restoring and maintaining security and stability. at the same time, peace support operations are also a means of disseminating the union's fundamental principles and values, such as the rule of law, respect for human rights and the rule of law in those states. i know that the eu and the un have the appropriate means and resources to achieve the sdgs. the un is also the principal guarantor of international peace and takes initiatives at multilateral level to achieve global security and peace. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and believe that decisive and consistent action must be taken to fully eliminate unfair trading practices in the eu food supply chain.
in writing. ‒ while the report is on the right track, having clearly recognised the huge negative impact of the cap on farmers, smes and small businesses and consumers, it nonetheless takes a strict approach to the creation of the single market. we therefore decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the trade relations in today's globalized society are often surrounded by unfair trade practices, where the strong side exploits the weak, and in our case, small producers. this is also the case in the food market, where large companies are exploiting their dominant position in violation of the good business practices and good faith that should prevail in food trade. this report refers to this economic imbalance, which is due to the greater bargaining power of the stronger firms in relation to the smaller ones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food supply chain is not affected by the food supply chain. the negative impact on the internal economies of the member states is also evident and decentralised and sporadic efforts at national level alone are not effective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the community.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and believe that the eu can become a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability. this report is concerned with ensuring a dynamic agricultural sector in europe by developing a wide range of innovations and technologies in all types of agriculture, conventional, organic or otherwise. we must ensure that the benefits of technological innovation are available to all our farmers. finding solutions that work on a small scale in rural communities is just as important as addressing the challenges faced by many of our large scale farmers.
in writing. ‒ the although the report contained some positive elements, its one-dimensional approach to the issue of technological solutions for sustainable agriculture in the eu did not allow us to support it. the technological solutions introduced in recent decades have undoubtedly lowered production costs and therefore increased production. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. the report also fails to address the burning issue of food waste, which is estimated to account for 30% of production. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress the importance of new innovative and affordable solutions for the agricultural sector to increase the use of more environmentally friendly methods, goods and resources, which may include not only new farming and land management methods but also means to increase the use of renewable energy sources and means to phase out the need for fossil fuels.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because we fundamentally disagree with the commission's approach. we believe that the current agricultural crisis is very closely linked to the environmental, social and economic crisis, to a globalised production-consumption system and to the unequal distribution of resources in the eu and around the world. new techniques and varieties together with new technologies are increasing even more the dependence on multinationals and banks thus widening the gap between the large industrialized food producers and the small scale farmers. and so along with their marginalization, local varieties are being lost along with the cultural heritage associated with traditional harvesting methods.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment when we are talking about a new immigration agreement, the situation is getting worse instead of better. every day innocent people, including many children and infants, are sentenced to death. in the last week of may alone, 900 refugees died of cold in the mediterranean. the situation is shameful and unacceptable. the official policy of the union cannot continue to undermine its declared principles of solidarity, to close the borders, to promote deportations, to sign shameful agreements with turkey on refugees. the situation is tragic. even people rescued from the multi-neck shipwrecks face squalid living conditions, with hotspots now being turned into concentration camps. to stop crime, we must stop empty promises and take immediate action. immediately establish a common and fair asylum system based on practical solidarity and equal burden-sharing. establish legal and safe pathways and a permanent, binding and fair system for the status of refugees. it is equally important that they become human and dignified reception spaces for refugees both in the union and in third countries.
s & d) and the mr president, the success of the new resettlement pact does not lie in the adoption of new measures to deal with the refugee crisis but in its faithful implementation without derogations, otherwise we will be exposed again as europeans, as with the implementation of the resettlement programme, where national egos have been overcome. solidarity, equal burden-sharing, adherence to the principles and values of the european union, respect for human rights, emphasis on legal channels of migration, cooperation between the european union and third countries of origin and transit, an adequate and sustainable financial base. these are the basic elements that must govern the new pact. there must be a common management of the external borders, which will guarantee security while fighting criminal activities. however, border management does not imply border closure.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, it has always been our view that the european union and third countries can develop links if this is the product of the free will of the parties. in this case we are referring to the philippines, a country which is facing very serious problems, particularly in matters of human rights, the rule of law and corruption. the developments in the south china sea are also very serious. we are against unilateral actions which create tensions and threaten peace and stability. we support the peaceful resolution of issues through a structured dialogue. in our view the resolution could be more balanced, since it only refers to china's aggression and omits to mention the joint military exercises of the philippines and the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are convinced that agreements between the european union and third countries should focus on improving the situation of citizens, protecting their rights, the environment and building peace and stability.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am not one of those who will argue that the european strategic investment plan will solve all the problems. but this european commission, this commissioner, this european parliament, we voted and supported the european strategic investment plan, which is not something on paper. the european union has already given 100 billion and there is a prospect of up to 315 billion being mobilised in the european union. we're not saying it's perfect, but it's very easy to zero in and level out without offering any alternatives. we expect proposals for enrichment, alternative proposals which will help this plan to be effective and not a complete refusal, perhaps because it will be convenient for some, if the plan fails, to further criticise the european union for doing nothing. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
the commission the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. to do all this, you need investment. the european commission has responded quickly and created the investment plan with a huge contribution from the european parliament to make it better, and we must not forget the immense and important contribution of my dear colleague josé manuel fernandes, who was the rapporteur for this plan. i am not one of those who believe that this plan will solve all our problems. i am not one of those who thinks that this plan will be a complete success, but i have not heard any other alternative proposed so far. i have not heard any suggestions for optimizing this plan. and i say this to you, as a member of a country like cyprus, which has been tested and has not yet received a cent from this investment plan, to now officially ask vice-president katainen for countries like malta and cyprus, which have not been able to participate until today, to receive the contribution and assistance of the investment fund, to be informed about the investment fund, because until today we all believed or the member countries believe that it is only for large projects, for infrastructure projects, for large developments. it's for small businesses. if possible, a one-stop shop for information for smes should be set up in each country, in order to achieve the objective of spreading this fund to 140,000 smes. i do not want to believe that some people would prefer the european strategic investment plan to fail in order to criticise it, because i believe that the plan did not fail but could do much better with proposals, with a positive approach, with constructive dialogue. the european parliament will do that.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr katainen, instead of promoting public investment for growth for the benefit of society, the investment plan is based on private investment and aims to reduce its risk. this is also confirmed by the data for the first quarter of 2016, according to which the money goes mainly to developed countries and regions. where multinationals have greater profits, and not in states like cyprus and greece, which have greater need because of the memorandum austerity policies that have destroyed their economies, have led to high rates of unemployment, immigration of young people and impoverishment of the people. equally dangerous is that the commission's report clearly states that, instead of giving new money, it will promote further involvement of the fund for strategic investments with the 'horizon 2020' and 'connecting europe' programmes and the structural funds. the commission is also proposing to reduce the amount of funding for the structural funds by a further ecu 1 billion. if the objectives of the investment plan are not changed and new funds are not allocated to new investments, there will never be a way out of the crisis and the recession.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and expect the final report of the committee of inquiry to be in parliament within 12 months.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the recommendation to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and instances of maladministration in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. the subject is one of the most important issues to have come to light and as a group we will insist that the subject be examined in all its depth.
in writing. ‒ we support the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver and consider it a decisive contribution to the strengthening and deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of palau.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the agreement on short-stay visa waiver for palau citizens. we are critical of the procedure chosen, which leaves parliament out of the picture and simply asks for its approval.
in writing. ‒ the the eu-africa, caribbean and pacific partnership agreement also includes the republic of palau. by virtue of that agreement and pursuant to regulation no 509/2014, the republic of palau is included among the countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states of the union. since the entry into force of the regulation, the commission has been negotiating with the republic of palau a bilateral agreement which is still awaiting parliament's approval. this agreement provides for the right of citizens of the union or of palau to travel without a visa to the territory of the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days. i am voting in favour of the adoption of the agreement to bring the union closer to this country politically and culturally, with a view to promoting the union's basic principles and values and strengthening the protection of human rights.
in writing. ‒ we support the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver and consider it a key contribution to the strengthening and deepening of relations between the european union and the kingdom of tonga.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the agreement on short-stay visa waiver for tongan citizens. we are critical of the procedure chosen, which leaves parliament out of the picture and simply asks for its approval.
in writing. ‒ the the partnership agreement between the eu and the african, caribbean and pacific states includes the kingdom of tonga. by virtue of that agreement and pursuant to regulation (eu) no 509/2014, the kingdom of tonga is included among the countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states of the union. since the entry into force of the regulation, the commission has been negotiating with the republic of tonga a bilateral agreement which is still awaiting parliament's approval. this agreement includes a right for citizens of the union or of tonga to travel without a visa to the territory of the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days. i am voting in favour of the approval of the agreement, so that there will be closer relations between the union and that country at political and cultural level, with a view to promoting the union's basic principles and values and strengthening the protection of human rights.
in writing. ‒ we support the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver and consider it a decisive contribution to the strengthening and deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of colombia.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for colombian citizens. we are critical of the procedure chosen, which leaves parliament out of the picture and simply asks for its approval.
in writing. ‒ the the eu-african, caribbean and pacific partnership agreement includes the republic of colombia. by virtue of that agreement and pursuant to regulation (eu) no 509/2014, the republic of colombia is included among the countries whose nationals are exempt from the visa requirement for crossing the external borders of the member states of the union. since the entry into force of the regulation, the commission has been negotiating with the republic of colombia a bilateral agreement which is still awaiting parliament's approval. this agreement provides for the right of citizens of the union or of colombia to travel without a visa to the territory of the contracting parties for a maximum period of 90 days. i am voting in favour of the approval of the agreement to establish closer relations between the union and that country at political and cultural level, with a view to promoting the union's basic principles and values and strengthening the protection of human rights.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we believe that the expansion of the itu has a huge potential for job creation and gdp growth.
in writing. ‒ the ita is mainly for the benefit of large companies in developing countries involved in high-tech production. it was sold as a tool to help developing countries. instead, it acts as a tool to increase the dependence of poor countries, increasing the technological and economic gap between the industrialized countries on the one hand, and the poor countries on the other. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the agreement also does nothing to help tackle the environmental problems of the proliferation of appliances and the need for recycling. we have voted against the extension of the agreement for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the the information technology agreement now lists 82 contracting states. the agreement requires the parties to set customs duties at zero on all information technology products. this contributes to the greatest growth and expansion of trade for all participants. in 2012, an agreement was signed between the eu, the us, japan, korea, taiwan and costa rica to expand product coverage from ita. the agreement thus adds some 200 new it products, including gps navigation systems and medical equipment. i believe that this agreement can greatly increase the union's revenue in this sector while reducing the prices of these products for consumers. we are aiming to extend the agreement even further and to attract even more countries.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and call on the member states to take the necessary measures, in accordance with their national legislation, to subject the new psychoactive substance α-pvp to the control measures and criminal sanctions provided for in their legislation, in accordance with their obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances.
in writing. ‒ the the report is simply an endorsement of the council's plan calling on the member states to take action in view of their obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. the world health organization says that 130 deaths have been caused by α-pvp, which is mentioned in the resolution, and that it has no medical benefit. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we believe that the conclusion of the 2010 protocol to the hns convention will ensure uniform application of the provisions on liability and compensation in relation to accidents caused by the carriage of weee by sea in the eu. it also ensures that adequate funds are made available to compensate victims of such accidents.
in writing. ‒ the the 2010 protocol to the international convention on civil liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea needs to be ratified by the member states separately on behalf of the eu. the original international convention on this subject was signed in 1996 and deals with issues of liability and compensation for damage caused by harmful substances such as liquefied natural gas and liquefied gas. this objective liability shall be borne by the shipowner who carries the dangerous substance. there is also mention of the establishment of a special compensation fund to be paid to any person who has suffered damage as a result of the carriage of weee by sea. given that shipping is an international business activity with cross-border implications, an international, rather than a european, regime with uniform application should be ensured so that such accidents can be dealt with more effectively and fairly. i would like to vote in favour of this resolution, so that we can move in that direction.
in writing. ‒ the the 2010 protocol to the international convention on civil liability and compensation for damage in connection with the carriage of hazardous and noxious substances by sea needs to be ratified by the member states separately on behalf of the eu. the original international convention on this subject was signed in 1996 and deals with issues of liability and compensation for damage caused by harmful substances such as liquefied natural gas and liquefied gas. this objective liability shall be borne by the shipowner who carries the dangerous substance. there is also mention of the establishment of a special compensation fund to be paid to any person who has suffered damage as a result of the carriage of weee by sea. given that shipping is an international business activity with cross-border implications, an international, rather than a european, regime with uniform application should be ensured so that such accidents can be dealt with more effectively and fairly. i would like to vote in favour of this resolution, so that we can move in that direction.
in writing. ‒ we support the protocol, which includes the republic of croatia as a party to the eu-philippines partnership and cooperation agreement, since, according to its act of accession, croatia undertakes to accede to international agreements signed or concluded by the european union and its member states by concluding a protocol to those agreements.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses eu-philippine relations. the report also mentions a possible free trade agreement with all the countries of south-east asia, and that is a problem for us. he refers to the tensions in the south china sea calling on china to stop its aggression, but is silent on any criticism of the joint philippine-us drills. in view of the above, we abstained on all three reports on the eu-philippines cooperation agreement, regardless of whether this one is technical and simply refers to the accession of croatia to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ the the eu is one of the philippines' most important foreign investors and trading partners, accounting for 11.56% of its total exports. in parallel, the eu has more than doubled its development cooperation funding with the philippines for the period 2014-2019 and is providing significant humanitarian assistance to victims of the tropical storms that regularly hit the country. noting the significant progress made by the philippines in both human rights and anti-corruption and counter-terrorism initiatives through its participation in international coalitions, i welcome the conclusion of a partnership and cooperation agreement with the philippines with the broader objective of providing union assistance to reduce poverty, further promoting respect for human rights and the rule of law, ensuring peace and security and providing assistance in emergencies. finally, this resolution concerns the union's partnership with the philippines but in connection with the accession of croatia to the eu, so that the state in question as a member of the union is taken into account and included in the agreement with the philippines.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses eu-philippine relations. the report also mentions a possible free trade agreement with all the countries of south-east asia, and that is a problem for us. he refers to the tensions in the south china sea calling on china to stop its aggression, but there is no criticism of the joint philippine-us exercises. in view of the above, we abstained on all three reports on the eu-philippines cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and consider that strengthening bilateral relations is in the common interest.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses eu-philippine relations. the report also mentions a possible free trade agreement with all the countries of south-east asia, and that is a problem for us. it refers to tensions in the south china sea, calling on china to stop its aggression, but there is no criticism of the joint philippine-us exercises. in view of the above, we abstained on all three reports on the eu-philippines cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ the the eu is one of the philippines' most important foreign investors and trading partners, accounting for 11.56% of its total exports. in parallel, the eu has more than doubled its development cooperation funding with the philippines for the period 2014-2019 and is providing significant humanitarian assistance to victims of the tropical storms that regularly hit the country. noting the significant progress made by the philippines in both human rights and anti-corruption and counter-terrorism initiatives through its participation in international coalitions, i welcome the conclusion of a partnership and cooperation agreement with the philippines with the broader objective of providing union assistance to reduce poverty, further promoting respect for human rights and the rule of law, ensuring peace and security and providing assistance in emergencies.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses eu-philippine relations. the report also mentions a possible free trade agreement with all the countries of south-east asia, and that is a problem for us. he refers to the tensions in the south china sea, calling on china to stop its aggression, but there is no criticism of the joint philippine-us exercises. in view of the above, we abstained on all three reports concerning the eu-philippines cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and consider that strengthening bilateral relations is in the common interest.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses eu-philippine relations. the report also mentions a possible free trade agreement with all the countries of south-east asia, and that is a problem for us. he refers to the tensions in the south china sea, calling on china to stop its aggression, but there is no criticism of the joint philippine-us exercises. in view of the above, we abstained on all three reports concerning the eu-philippines cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ the the eu is one of the philippines' most important foreign investors and trading partners, accounting for 11.56% of its total exports. in parallel, the eu has more than doubled its development cooperation funding with the philippines for the period 2014-2019 and is providing significant humanitarian assistance to victims of the tropical storms that regularly hit the country. noting the significant progress made by the philippines in both human rights and anti-corruption and counter-terrorism initiatives through its participation in international coalitions, i welcome the conclusion of a partnership and cooperation agreement with the philippines with the broader objective of providing union assistance to reduce poverty, further promoting respect for human rights and the rule of law, ensuring peace and security and providing assistance in emergencies.
in writing. ‒ the report analyses eu-philippine relations. the report also mentions a possible free trade agreement with all the countries of south-east asia, and that is a problem for us. he refers to the tensions in the south china sea, calling on china to stop its aggression, but there is no criticism of the joint philippine-us exercises. in view of the above, we abstained on all three reports concerning the eu-philippines cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we believe that europe must demonstrate its solidarity and its determination to support and assist tunisia with very concrete measures that will benefit the entire population of the country.
in writing. ‒ the tunisia is facing serious problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, the proposed macrofinancial assistance is an instrument linked to imf loans and programmes, and they impose a neoliberal agenda on the country in the name of so-called structural reforms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not in any way opposed to the need to help tunisia to deal with the problems it is facing.
in writing. ‒ the today we can safely say that tunisia has made important and remarkable steps forward in democratizing itself and protecting the fundamental rights of its citizens. it is no coincidence that he has been awarded the nobel peace prize for his work with the national dialogue quartet. however, the country is also facing serious challenges due to the increased terrorist attacks, which have greatly reduced the expected development and progress of the country, for example in the tourism sector. i believe that the efforts made by tunisia to modernise its public infrastructure and economic development should be recognised by the eu and serve as an incentive to increase the union's macro-financial assistance to that country. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the financing of the programme, which is to be financed by the community budget. i therefore vote against the report in order to implement this plan as quickly as possible.
in writing. ‒ the i come from a small country, cyprus, which is a financial centre. its comparative advantage is that it has low corporate tax rates; we're at 12%. that's what healthy competition requires. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union countries are one thing, but tax havens are another, and we must fight them. we must be careful not to hit the european union itself, bearing in mind that what happens in tax havens has nothing to do with what happens in the european union. i therefore vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ tax policy should be a sovereign right of each member state. that is our declared position. any concentration of these powers in brussels will deal the final blow to the cypriot economy after the disastrous bail-in. we are not against tax avoidance or tax evasion rules in any way. we are against the creation of rules imposed on them by brussels and the economically powerful member states and which they will apply to their measures. we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ tax policy should be a sovereign right of each member state. that is our declared position. any concentration of these powers in brussels will deal the final blow to the cypriot economy after the disastrous bail-in. we are not against tax avoidance or tax evasion rules in any way. we are against the creation of rules imposed on them by brussels and the economically powerful member states and which they will apply to their measures. we voted against the report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ although we voted in favour of the resolution as the main message is the condemnation of the use of torture by the cia, this does not mean that we are still not concerned by references in the resolution which indirectly disengage the us authorities by presenting the war on terror as an alibi.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and believe that satellite capabilities could be used to better assess and identify the flow of illegal migrants and migration routes and, in the case of migrants coming from north africa, to identify boarding points on ships, with the aim of making faster contact with them and saving more lives.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because we are against the strengthening of eu-us and eu-nato cooperation. the report contributes to the development of the european defence industry, while also calling for public funds to be used to provide funding for start-up innovative companies, to ensure that the high costs of space research are reduced.
in writing. ‒ the public security and peace within the eu itself are daily endangered by the increase in terrorist attacks in the member states of the union. in this context, it is imperative to strengthen the union's security by adopting a common strategy and coordination on matters of common security and defence policy in order to protect european citizens more effectively. the eu must find and tackle the root causes of the challenges it faces today, which are not confined within the eu itself but are cross-border. with this data, the eu's satellite capabilities can be used to better assess the capabilities of the security and defence strategy. i therefore believe that this resolution can help to improve access to satellite communications, space surveillance and precise navigation and geospatial capabilities, technologies of strategic importance, with the ultimate aim of scientific and technical progress and industrial competitiveness in security and defence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the as stated in the report, the aim is to exploit the new space capabilities to strengthen the european defence and security policy aimed at further promoting militarisation, enhancing the synergy of civilian and military forces, limiting the dominant role of member states in foreign policy matters, and in particular strengthening the eu-nato relationship. the use of space to serve these purposes finds us at odds. we are particularly opposed to the proposal to develop and promote the galileo programme for military purposes for law enforcement purposes through surveillance. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and urge the commission to put forward a comprehensive, ambitious and far-reaching strategy, securing europe's leadership in space technologies and services in global markets in the short, medium and long term, to ensure europe's independent access to space and a level playing field for the european space industry.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the resolution because we are against the use of surveillance technologies for military purposes. we also disagree with the need, as shown in the report, for the full commercialization of space.
in writing. ‒ we call on the venezuelan government to adopt a constructive stance to overcome the current crisis in the country through a constitutional, peaceful and democratic solution based on dialogue.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the resolution because we consider it to be biased and to be an interference against a third country.
in writing. ‒ we support the joint resolution and underline the commission's commitment to propose two measures by the end of june: an implementing regulation containing the criteria to be applied to chemicals covered by the plant protection regulation and a delegated act containing the criteria to be applied under the biocides regulation. it is a primary objective of parliament to adopt as soon as possible sound scientific criteria suitable for regulatory purposes.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the resolution because our political position was clear from the beginning. we have insisted from the beginning that chemicals or a cocktail of chemicals that have the potential to interfere with the endocrine system and are responsible for adverse pregnancy outcomes, neurobehavioral disorders, high rates of male infertility, birth defects, breast cancer, thyroid problems, obesity, and type 2 diabetes should be identified as soon as possible on the basis of science and unconditionally free of any socioeconomic implications.
in writing. ‒ we vote against as we consider that the draft commission implementing decision exceeds the implementing powers provided for in regulation (eu) no 1829/2003.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the objection to the authorisation of the genetically modified maize bt11 x mir162 x mir604 x ga21 because of our longstanding and consistent position against gmos.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the objection to the authorisation of genetically modified maize, based on the need to safeguard the interests of consumers, to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health and to protect the environment.
in writing. ‒ we vote against the proposal as we consider that the draft commission implementing decision does not achieve the objective of protecting health and the environment set out in directive 2001/18/ec and therefore exceeds the implementing powers provided for in that directive.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the objection to the approval of the genetically modified carnation (dianthus caryophyllus l., series shd-27531-4), because of our longstanding and consistent position against gmos.
in writing. ‒ we rejected the objection concerning the placing on the market of genetically modified carnations on the grounds that consumer interests, a high level of protection of human life and health and the protection of the environment must be safeguarded.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but mr erdoğan's actions are also a megaton bomb to the foundations of the turkish republic. we already count 300,000 displaced kurds from their homes. the aim of his actions in lifting the immunity of the kurdish members of parliament is to bring the kurdish population into submission. in the face of this, i think the european union must show its dignity first of all towards itself, first of all towards us. we must not allow ourselves to be seen as submissive to the fact that turkey is hosting the 3 million refugees and is exploiting or exploiting this fact so clearly towards the whole of the european states. the turkish president must be given a clear message that we consider his actions to be detrimental to his relations with the european union.
s & d) and the the commission is also aware of the fact that the turkish authorities have not yet taken any action to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the treaty. what we're discussing today is something much bigger and something much worse. we are witnessing a silent genocide in the kurdish provinces with hundreds of murders and innocent victims. now erdogan is going ahead and lifting the immunity of mps who disagree with him. the first objective: the beheading of the hdp leadership, the party that is the only organized opposition. the opposition, particularly the kurds, are reacting to erdoğan's violence and aggression by peaceful and political means. for every member who is persecuted by someone in this house we are determined to provide personal solidarity and support. and we also support the hdp's decision to refuse to come to an inquiry after erdogan's decrees.
s & d) and the mr president, the decision to lift the parliamentary immunity is yet another anti-democratic move that is undoubtedly aimed at strengthening the powers of erdogan. with the new provision, hdp members are not just targeted, but the party is effectively on its way to being eliminated from parliament. we cannot turn a blind eye to the violations of freedom of expression in turkey for fear that the eu-turkey agreement on refugees will be jeopardized. i would remind you that the hdp mp leyla zana, who received the sakharov prize, had been in prison for ten years after her immunity was lifted in 1994. the lifting of immunity is a flagrant violation of the rights of members and will worsen the already tense situation with regard to the kurdish issue. unfortunately, the repeated incidents against freedom of expression, the blocking of democratic dialogue, the silencing of the press, the continuing occupation of cyprus show that turkey is far from the principles and values of the european union, to which it wants to join.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the the free movement of european citizens has been a major objective of the eu for many years, and new measures are constantly being taken to improve and facilitate citizens in this area as much as possible. this report concerns the simplification of the official acceptance of certain public documents in the eu. it is remarkable that we have now succeeded in getting some 12 million european citizens to live, study and work in another member state than their country of origin. the regulation in question is aimed at simplifying the registration of other identity documents relating to nationality, residence and criminal records. it also concerns facilitation in relation to documents requiring official translation for their authentication. the regulation also provides for a safety net by enabling the authorities to verify the authenticity of the document directly by the issuing authority by means of electronic communication. an interesting initiative in this area is the introduction of multilingual standard forms for these public documents. i would therefore like to vote in favour of this resolution to achieve easy and safe movement of european citizens within the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported a relevant legislative resolution on promoting the free movement of citizens by simplifying the requirements for the submission of certain public documents in the european union and amending regulation (eu) no 1024/2012. as described in the text of that resolution, the mobility of union citizens will be enhanced by this amendment, which provides for the exemption from the obligation to validate and mark (the 'hague seal'), two administrative formalities normally required for public documents issued by another state. measures to facilitate acceptance are also provided for certified photocopies and official translations. these facilities for the citizen are offset by the possibility for the authority receiving the document to ask the issuing authority directly and by electronic means to verify the authenticity of the document.
in writing. ‒ the the aim of the regulation is to simplify substantially the official acceptance of certain public documents in the eu, due to the cross-border mobility of citizens. at present, authentication and notation of public documents issued by another state is required. the introduction of a regulation will relieve these administrative formalities in respect of registration documents, documents relating to residence, nationality and criminal records. these facilities are offset by the possibility for the authorities receiving the document to request a direct and electronic certification of its authenticity from the authority which issued it. there is no political problem with this proposal. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we consider that the technical amendments contained in it constitute an improvement of the legislation.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because its general approach has resulted (in the past) in the closure of the special tribunal for civil servants and the transfer of its activities to the general court of the european union. therefore, we do not see the need to hire more judges.
in writing. ‒ the recent reforms of the general court of the european union have increased the number of judges from 28 to 56, so that there are two judges per member state. this increase also requires the abolition of the civil service tribunal and the reinstatement of the general court as the forum for the settlement of disputes between the union and its officials. i therefore think it is reasonable to introduce transitional arrangements to make this readjustment of the general court possible. this motion for a resolution on the transfer to the general court of the eu of jurisdiction to hear at first instance disputes between the union and its officials (public administration disputes) contains both the necessary technical provisions and amendments which improve the existing legislation on this subject, by setting out the conditions for the transfer of jurisdiction and the reforms to the internal organisation of the general court to ensure coherence and efficiency. i would therefore like to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the i could not help but support the proposed amended draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council transferring to the general court of the european union the jurisdiction to hear at first instance disputes between the union and its officials. following the previous amendment of that regulation to extend the powers of the general court to include the adjudication of cases concerning officials of the union, the abolition of references to the former judicial body, namely the civil service tribunal, is purely supplementary.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and underline that eu citizens have the right to expect a high level of transparency, efficiency, prompt execution and responsiveness from the union's institutions and other institutions and bodies. they also have the right to be adequately informed if they can take further action on their matter.
in writing. ‒ the this motion for a resolution seeks to strengthen the citizen's right to transparency, efficiency, prompt implementation and response by the union institutions and other institutions and bodies, as it finds that the existing range of procedures has gaps and inconsistencies in those procedures. it also contains a regulation on the proper functioning of the institutions, which was drawn up after a group of lawyers had been consulted. it is essentially a continuation of the berlingue report, which was adopted in 2013 and which we voted in favour of.
in writing. ‒ the i welcome the adoption of this regulation, which will bind and govern the action of the institutions and which is a corollary of the union's obligations under the lisbon treaty. european administrative procedural law has its own binding written text which responds to the requirement of sound and efficient administration. the right to be heard, the right to appeal to administrative files and the enhancement of the right to effective appeal against decisions of the union administration are among the rights conferred on union officials by that regulation.
in writing. ‒ this motion for a resolution is about strengthening the citizen's right to transparency, efficiency, prompt execution and response by the union institutions and other bodies and agencies, as it finds that the existing range of procedures has gaps and inconsistencies in those procedures. it also contains a regulation on the proper functioning of the institutions, which was drawn up after a group of lawyers had been consulted. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress the specificity and strategic importance of the european railway material sector for a european industrial renaissance.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because its approach is one-dimensional, setting the framework for full privatisation of the transport sector under review.
in writing. ‒ the the main problem facing the railway equipment industry, which is not mentioned in the resolution, is the neoliberal programme it is called upon to implement to boost competitiveness and liberalise the market, objectives which are promoted at the expense of policies for growth, support for the real economy and the creation of new quality jobs. the resolution contains some problematic negative references which we cannot ignore. for example, the liberalization of the sector, which is being promoted in the resolution, is inextricably linked to deindustrialization, the geographical transfer of production to the benefit of multinationals and the loss of jobs. the liberalization and privatisation strategies, which are the main factor in the decline of the railway equipment industry in europe, are leading to mass layoffs of workers and the closure of many industrial units. the resolution also omits important references that should have been included if the objective was to support the railway equipment industry. for example, reference should be made to the need to promote public investment and to use programmes such as 'horizon 2020' and 'connecting europe' to fund research in the field of rail technology. the need to promote measures to facilitate access to finance for smes in the railway sector should also be emphasised. we voted against it for these reasons.
the commission madam president, violent radicalisation is a challenge that requires broad-based action, in terms of security issues and tackling the root causes. as set out in the european agenda on security, the utmost priority must be given to preventing and countering the spread of terrorist islamic propaganda and hate speech. education and political education must be at the forefront of the defence and protection of european citizens. the european union must, within its limits and competences, help national actions to provide real added value in situ. unfortunately, mr minister, turkey is not on the front line in the fight against terrorism, because it is itself a state terrorist and unfortunately turkey is setting up fundamentalist mosques and islamic schools in european territories, and in particular in the occupied territories of the republic of cyprus, which are hotbeds of islamic terrorism and extremism. this must be taken very care of. i believe that protection is of the utmost importance.
s & d) and the madam president, cyprus has been in mourning for four days. a fiery flash, a nightmare, scorched vast tracts of forest land and crops. as a result of the fires, two brave firefighters were killed in the line of duty and six others are seriously injured. to understand this disaster for cyprus, it is compared in size to the area of forest land burned by turkey in 1974, during the turkish invasion. that's about 10% of our forest wealth! the equivalent for germany would be 1,140,000 hectares of forest. it is therefore impossible for a small country to bear all these economic costs. there are support mechanisms, but we call on the european union to help a small country like cyprus, which only a month ago withdrew from the support mechanism.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental objectives are met, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the objectives of the directive are met. (the president cut off the speaker because of a microphone problem) i am convinced that the climate and environmental objectives are identical to the energy objectives. we cannot just focus on energy issues and leave the environment out, and because my country has recently suffered an unprecedented ecological, environmental disaster from uncontrolled fires, resulting in the loss of life of firefighters who fell on duty, there must be... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. how can we, as the european union, mobilise both funds and the objectives of the european union so that, alongside the energy objectives, we can also achieve environmental objectives and be able to protect our forests and restore them when they are damaged, as has happened at the moment with cyprus?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, first of all, for the very good work she has done. the report rightly stresses that the development of renewable energy sources must be recognised as a fundamental pillar of our energy policy. indeed, if we are sincere about the goals we are setting for combating climate change, tackling energy poverty and developing a productive energy model for the benefit of society, it is very important to promote an ambitious and realistic integrated strategy for renewable energy. only then will we achieve the relevant targets we have set for 2020 and 2030. but to create an energy model based on recognisable energy sources, it is important to increase public investment in promoting the necessary infrastructure. it is equally important to promote instruments to support small producers of renewable energy sources as well as measures to ensure the promotion of renewable energy sources at the lowest possible cost to consumers. in this process, democratic control and collective management, as the report rightly calls for, are necessary elements to ensure that the needs and interests of society are best served, so that energy is safeguarded as a social good to which all people have equal and cheap access.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i believe that one way of achieving this is to exploit new european energy sources. so if the eu really means that it has the political will and determination to become energy self-sufficient in the future and at the same time reduce both energy dependence and energy costs, it has only one way to go steadily and consistently: to make use of and develop europe's energy sources as a priority. cyprus and possibly other european countries currently have energy resources and energy prospects. the eu must support cyprus and the eastern mediterranean not only in theory but in practice with energy infrastructure and investment. this will be primarily to the benefit of the eu, european citizens and european design. the promotion of competitive alternative energy and the exploitation of renewable energy sources, focusing on the comparative advantages of countries with increased sunshine, wind, biofuels, etc., is an efficient move with multiple benefits for both energy and the environment. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the energy sector in order to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and await the final report of the committee of inquiry to parliament.
in writing. ‒ at the previous plenary session we voted in favour of the recommendation to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate alleged breaches and instances of maladministration in relation to money laundering, tax evasion and tax avoidance. we have here voted in favour of the members of the committee of inquiry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the agreement and welcome the results of the negotiations between the commission and the lebanese republic.
in writing. ‒ the three reports concern the eu-lebanon cooperation framework and the latter's participation in union programmes. we have abstained because on the one hand this is the will of the lebanese authorities, but on the other hand these agreements lead to free trade agreements with all the negative consequences for the peoples, which we of course disagree with.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the agreement and welcome the results of the negotiations between the commission and the lebanese republic.
in writing. ‒ the three reports concern the eu-lebanon cooperation framework and the latter's participation in union programmes. we have abstained because on the one hand this is the will of the lebanese authorities, but on the other hand these agreements lead to free trade agreements with all the negative consequences for the peoples, which we of course disagree with.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the agreement and welcome the results of the negotiations between the commission and the lebanese republic.
in writing. ‒ the three reports concern the eu-lebanon cooperation framework and the latter's participation in union programmes. we have abstained because on the one hand this is the will of the lebanese authorities, but on the other hand these agreements lead to free trade agreements with all the negative consequences for the peoples, which we of course disagree with.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report, as we consider that this agreement is an important step in the ongoing efforts to crack down on tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. ‒ we are of the firm view that any agreement aimed at tackling tax evasion and tax avoidance is in the right direction and that is why we voted in favour of the eu-monaco protocol on the automatic exchange of financial transaction information.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report as indeed the redundancies were caused by the reduction in public and private investment in infrastructure in the eu and the significant increase in steel prices in europe, which caused serious disruptions to trade and loss of competitiveness of european construction machinery manufacturing units.
in writing. ‒ we voted to withdraw funds from the eu globalisation fund to be given to the 488 displaced workers and 300 young people out of education in belgium to support and retrain them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and agree with the rapporteur, mr gabriel mato, that the aim of the transposition of iccat recommendations is to ensure their uniform application throughout the eu and not to re-launch the debate on issues that have already been decided, often after long negotiations, where every word and every punctuation is important.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report, as it advocates a further increase in the total annual tuna catches and therefore an increase in quotas, which reduces the species (which is on the red list of threatened species and has suffered a significant decline in numbers in the recent past).
in writing. ‒ the the tuna is now protected by many international treaties and by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat). the main responsibility of this committee, to which the eu is a party, is to take decisions on the enhancement and conservation of atlantic fisheries resources, including tuna. the timetable for taking action in this direction is until 2022 with objectives such as the replenishment of stocks through the gradual reduction of the allowable fisheries, including tuna. the commission has already succeeded in reducing the total allowable catches, which has led to an increase in tuna stocks. the fishermen themselves have contributed to this result by complying with the commission's decisions. i would therefore like to vote in favour of this resolution, since it seeks to incorporate technical measures into a european regulation, so as to ensure uniform and effective application of commission decisions throughout the european union.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report, considering that the general line of thinking in the commission proposal, that there is a need for a management plan for many species in the baltic sea, is correct.
in writing. ‒ the the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea are at serious risk of being depleted by fishing activities. the commission has already proposed a framework to regulate the range of fishing opportunities while ensuring the stability of stocks of these three fisheries. the three species are important elements of the baltic sea ecosystem, and i therefore consider it of the utmost importance to protect and control their stocks. i therefore support this resolution, which aims at the sustainable exploitation of these species as part of the overall effort to protect the marine ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we believe that the proposal for a regulation on matrimonial property regimes under consideration is clearly in the interest of the union and of international couples covered by it.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report, which helps international couples within the european union with jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes.
in writing. ‒ the the regulation on international couples concerns international jurisdiction, the applicable law, the recognition and enforcement of decisions in the field of registered couples' assets. although family law matters are primarily regulated at national level, the above-mentioned issues are regulated by this regulation. as regards jurisdiction, the regulation lays down the court with jurisdiction to hear disputes concerning the property of spouses. as regards the applicable law, this regulation brings unity, since the competent court will have jurisdiction over all assets irrespective of the location of the property and there will no longer be a separation of the applicable law for each asset separately. finally, as regards recognition, enforceability and enforcement of judgments, a judgment is enforceable only after it has been declared enforceable by the member state concerned, which is obliged to do so unless there is an overriding reason of public policy. i would like to vote in favour of this resolution, considering that it is a way of facilitating international couples by simplifying and consolidating the legislation concerning them.
s&d), in writing. ‒ the the proposal for a regulation on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes is being referred back to parliament by the council in the form of enhanced cooperation, since any decision on family law should be taken unanimously. i supported this proposal because the existence of a common legislative framework between member states facilitates and speeds up the resolution of property disputes. it also ensures the application of a judicial framework for the issuing of a judgment which will be recognised and enforced in the member states. decisions in a member state on property matters will be recognised and enforced directly in another member state.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we believe that the proposal for a regulation on registered partnership property relations is clearly in the interest of the union and of international couples covered by it.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report as it fills in legal gaps that existed with regard to international jurisdiction, the applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes.
in writing. ‒ the the regulation on international couples concerns international jurisdiction, the applicable law, the recognition and enforcement of decisions in the field of registered couples' assets. although family law matters are primarily regulated at national level, the above-mentioned issues are regulated by this regulation. as regards jurisdiction, the regulation lays down the court with jurisdiction to hear disputes concerning the property of spouses. as regards the applicable law, this regulation brings unity, since the competent court will have jurisdiction over all assets irrespective of the location of the property and there will no longer be a separation of the applicable law for each asset separately. finally, as regards recognition, enforceability and enforcement of judgments, a judgment is enforceable only after it has been declared enforceable by the member state concerned, which is obliged to do so unless there is an overriding reason of public policy. i would like to vote in favour of this resolution, considering that it is a way of facilitating international couples by simplifying and consolidating the legislation concerning them.
in writing. ‒ we express our deep concern at the current security and human rights situation in the eastern part of the drc, which remains extremely volatile, with continuous attacks against the civilian population by the various armed groups.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. in any event, we consider the situation in eastern congo to be very serious and to require the international community's attention.
in writing. ‒ the the escalation of violence in eastern congo has serious political, economic, social and humanitarian implications for the security of the democratic republic of congo and the entire region, which is already fragile and unstable. the region is still plagued by the presence of dozens of armed groups vying for gold, tin and tantalum reserves. the toll of wars is millions dead and destitute, mostly from starvation and disease outbreaks. the humanitarian situation in the region is tragic. millions of internally displaced persons, millions of people in need of food and urgent aid. anger is being aroused by the massive increase in the forced recruitment of children in the fierce fighting in eastern congo and the more widespread use of rape as a weapon of war. i supported the motion for a resolution which calls, among other things, on all parties concerned to put an end to the violence by promoting dialogue to find a viable, structured and peaceful political solution to the crisis. it is also important to carry out impartial investigations into all past and present cases of human rights violations and to prosecute and punish the perpetrators of human rights violations, war crimes, crimes against humanity, sexual violence against women and child recruitment.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. ‒ we support the report and stress that education and training are important, as they help people to secure the knowledge and professional skills they need to make them competitive and innovative workers. moreover, they could play an important role in the development of open-minded and literate people with a sensitivity and a strong sense of identity, as well as a deep knowledge of their culture and heritage, who recognise and honour common european values.
in writing. ‒ the the general approach of the rapporteur is based on the logic that training should be defined in terms of market needs. however, the report includes a number of very important amendments, with which we agree (necessity of integrating refugees into the education system, criticism of the departure of young scientists abroad, recognition of the high rates of youth unemployment, criticism of the cutting of funds for education in many member states and many others), especially with regard to the wider role that the positive amendments included in the report can potentially contribute (and contribute to a certain extent) to cohesion policy and to the greatest possible reduction of local socioeconomic inequalities.
in writing. ‒ the education and training are important tools for finding a job, as employers today have more demands on the knowledge and professional skills of the people they hire. the union's objective is therefore to promote education and training to produce innovative and open-minded workers who will contribute to the prosperity and development of europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. i would like to vote in favour of this report to help reduce the high unemployment rate, especially among young people who, despite being university graduates, are not absorbed by the professions. this is one of the most important tasks to be carried out by the union through the europe 2020 strategy, which sets a minimum level of education and also extends higher education levels. this of course requires that there should be an improvement in the quality of education at all levels. improving quality can be achieved through the use of qualified academics, but also by promoting the intra-european mobility of young students through programmes such as erasmus, thus helping young scientists to gain experience of education systems in other member states.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the the report unfortunately follows the logic that education must serve the needs of the market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as a result, instead of proposals to improve the quality of education, it is being promoted to commercialise it with the aim of creating a flexible workforce, which will be trained and able to change continuously to meet market needs. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the we support the report and once again stress that the development of renewable energy sources requires a new orientation that makes them the fundamental pillar of the european union's energy model. we have a primary responsibility to combat climate change, as we face an historic commitment. we must reduce the rest of the world's dependence on energy resources if we are to sustain our production model and create quality jobs, spearheading the development of technologies of strategic importance for the energy transition.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because it advocates the creation of an integrated strategy for the development and support of renewable energy sources as a fundamental pillar of eu energy policy. it also refers to energy poverty and to the aid/support to small producers of renewable energy sources.
in writing. ‒ the the development of renewable energy sources is a major objective of the union, with environmental protection as its main motivation. the eu is contributing to the fight against climate change and to the development of new technologies to support the energy transition towards renewable energy sources. i believe that the renewable energy directive is a legal commitment for the union to move in the right direction towards socially acceptable and sustainable energy production, which is environmentally friendly and beneficial to the health of european citizens. the directive also contains mechanisms for monitoring the application of the rules contained therein, so as to maximise the use and development of renewable energy sources. i am voting in favour of this resolution in the hope that we will be able to create an efficient and effective system in this area by increasing investment and by ensuring proper control of the management of energy production.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the progress report on renewable energy in the plenary, welcoming the european parliament's aim of further using these sources, making them capable of shaping the european union's energy model. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the energy union strategy and the energy union strategy. the right regulatory framework exists, it just needs to include a more binding target on the use of renewable energy sources, to be able to talk about an effective path towards the union's long-term climate goals by 2050.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because it is moving in the right direction towards creating an integrated strategy for the development and support of renewable energy sources. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources, which are not covered by the directive, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources. it also points out that it is very important to set binding and ambitious targets to combat climate change, to address energy poverty and to develop a productive energy model for the benefit of society. equally important are references to the need to increase public investment to promote the necessary infrastructure, to promote measures to support small producers of renewable energy sources as well as measures to ensure the promotion of renewable energy sources at the lowest possible cost to consumers. it has rightly pointed out that in this process democratic control and collective management are necessary elements to achieve the best possible service to the needs and interests of society and to ensure energy as a social good, to which all peoples have equal and cheap access.
in writing. ‒ we abstain as the report contains both positive and negative points.
in writing. ‒ the we abstained in this report because, on the one hand, there are positive references in the text to the need for this directive to be consistent with the objectives of climate protection and to the need to promote measures to combat energy poverty and to support vulnerable groups. however, it is clear that the policies proposed and promoted are in the context of and in the service of the implementation of the energy union, which we have strongly criticised. the aim is to have a strong internal market, to make the eu more competitive on the world market. the policies being promoted are therefore not serving the needs and interests of society but are using energy as a tool to serve the needs of the market.
in writing. ‒ the the european union's 2020 targets are to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, to make better use of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption and to increase energy efficiency. the main objective is also to increase investment in new energy-efficient technologies. i believe that the present bureaucracy in the energy sector, the high prices for energy consumption by small and mediumsized enterprises, together with the complexity of the legislation on energy efficiency, reduce the efficiency of the system. the energy efficiency directive, which aims to simplify legislation and achieve coherence, is therefore a positive step in the right direction. at the same time, the directive promotes and encourages innovation and provides new incentives for member states to fully comply and modernise in the energy sector.
gue/ngl), in writing. ‒ the there are positive references in the text, which we supported, to the need for this directive to be in line with the objectives of climate protection and to the need to promote measures to combat energy poverty and support vulnerable groups. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption is a very good one. so despite the individual positive objectives mentioned, the aim is to fully implement the third package of measures, to have a strong internal market, to make the eu more competitive in the world market. in this context, the policies being promoted do not serve the needs and interests of society but transform energy into a tool designed to serve the needs of the market. for these reasons we abstained.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the british people have decided to leave the eu and this is fully respected by everyone. the eu has so far proved to be united and strong in its ability to cope with the new reality. they calmly and resolutely asked the british leaders, respecting their decision, to immediately start the process of withdrawal, as defined by eu rules and european institutions. the european union must of course also take immediate action to deal with the problems, large and small, facing the citizens of europe. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left behind. the eu must also make its positive policies and the benefits it brings to its peoples, citizens and states known. the eu is not just problems and difficulties. we support the eu, the european idea, because this is the historical responsibility of all of us in the european union, and by strengthening a united europe we are safeguarding the future of our country and ensuring the future of our children.
in writing. ‒ the the citizens of the united kingdom have decided and their verdict should be respected by all. the decision of the british people to leave the european union should first of all concern european leaders about the policies being pursued in the union and the impact they have on its peoples. the joint resolution put to the vote in the house refuses to adopt these issues, calling for changes in the policies being followed. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the situation in the middle east is very critical. the european parliament has a duty to discuss this matter, and to hear the commission's views, because we must support the peace process. as long as the peace process does not proceed to end the occupation of palestine, to establish a palestinian state that will coexist peacefully with israel, then the situation will be critical and therefore the group of the european united left - nordic green left supports the proposal of the socialists and democrats.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr tamburrano, for the very good work he has done. our group, the gue, has argued from the outset that it is important to ensure that an energy labelling system is accessible to consumers, but that it also includes all the necessary information. we therefore welcome the proposals in the report to delete the misleading symbols and to move to a simpler, uniform system of labelling from a to g. consumers will thus have clearer indications of a product's energy efficiency and will be able to make informed choices, which will save energy and money. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied to all products. the report also proposes the creation of a new digital product database to which consumers will have free access. we believe, however, that it is very important that this database should provide more information on products and on consumer rights, in order to increase transparency and thus prevent big business from profiting unduly and misleading consumers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we support the report, and call on the commission to actively promote further wto reforms in order to develop multilateral rules for the sustainable and responsible management of global supply chains, which should include in particular: (a) effective and enforceable supply chain due diligence and transparency requirements, based on the un guiding principles on business and human rights; (b) health and safety standards, in particular recognising the right of workers to safety committees; (c) a social protection threshold; (d) compliance with the core wto labour standards. we reiterate our call to ensure that any measure adopted by a party under the paris agreement, or relating to any principle or commitment included in articles 3 and 4 of the unfccc, will also be secured by providing legally better protection of the right to regulate under trade agreements. finally, we ask the commission to accelerate progress on the development of product differentiation schemes, depending on the process and method of production, and sustainability criteria in the framework of trade agreements.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we all know here that brexit was based largely on lies and populism. i regret that the left is repeating, and in effect throwing water on the windmill of the eurosceptics, that brexit came about because of austerity and the policies of the european union. we consider it an insult that we, who decide democratically on all matters, who have a majority in the european parliament and in the other institutions of the european union, should try to find other reasons than the real ones, the ones for which brexit was made. i think one reason why there is euroscepticism is because misinformation continues. i am looking forward to hearing proposals, especially from the left. the commission has already made a number of proposals on the subject, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. unfortunately, he's in the same camp as denial and dogmatism.
s & d) and the madam president, euroscepticism has been part of the political reality in britain from the beginning, but that is a thing of the past. when a country leaves, it is a failure for all of us, but it is a failure in particular for the leadership of the european union itself, which today, quite rightly, says that we must change something. but what do we have to change? i often hear generalities, that we must reorient the european union, we must redesign it. but these are generalities. for my part, we have to answer some torturous questions, and i am particularly addressing both mr tusk and mr juncker: how much credibility do we have if we want to tackle euroscepticism in the other 27 member states when we implement the banking union, but the third pillar remains unclear when it will be implemented and it concerns the bank guarantee? how much credibility do we have when we make a deal with turkey and erdogan, but we are silent in front of erdogan's crimes against the kurds and cyprus?
the commission madam president, we have full and unreserved respect for the british referendum and we certainly regret brexit, but we are not going to dismiss the fact that brexit was the result of extreme populism and a lot of lies that were told to the british people. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the union. i am not saying that the european union should be a political force, but i am saying that it should be a political force. the european union cannot be identified only with austerity, the troika and the memoranda, when at the same time there are programmes important for young people, there is horizon 2020, and the european union allocates 145 billion euros each year to various sectors, and this project is being scrapped and left to the euro-sceptics to reap the benefits, as happened in great britain. another big problem for us is the bureaucracy. i am tired of hearing young people tell me that they are giving up trying to get money from the european union because of the bureaucracy, of hearing the same from businessmen, of hearing the same from farmers. i see that in recent times my country has suffered two major disasters, one by fire and one by hailstorm, and at the moment no one knows how we can get compensation. in conclusion, madam president, i must say a big thank you and acknowledge the struggle of the european commission and its president, mr juncker, to tackle the problems, big and small, and also the president of the european council, mr tusk, because we are really committed to the european idea and together we will fight for a better europe.
in writing. we support the report because we believe that the agreement will strengthen regional cohesion and will remain a significant means of bringing european and peruvian citizens closer together.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver for peruvian citizens. however, we are critical of the procedure chosen which leaves parliament out and simply asks for its approval.
in writing. we support the report as the commission's proposal for a regulation has as its main objective to contribute to addressing public health concerns arising from studies providing evidence of the carcinogenic action of ultra-small particles, and to the overall improvement of air quality and the creation of a borderless market, not only within the eu but also in its relations with its main trading partners around the world.
in writing. ‒ taking into account the changes to the text and the promotion of less harmful emissions, we agreed and voted in favour of the report in the context of the co-decision of parliament and the council on the subject.
in writing. we support the report and underline that even greater efforts are needed to find quick, effective and fair ways to create the necessary conditions for the integration of asylum seekers and refugees into our society.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. it is a socially sensitive report, in which, despite the obvious compromises made by the rapporteur, the text remains far from the obsessions of the market and of entrepreneurship. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this report since it touches on numerous issues, including providing a holistic eu approach, cooperation with third countries, eu funding including the esf, erdf, and humanitarian aid, definitions, processing, recognition of qualifications, access to eu labour markets and social inclusion (including housing, health care and social protection) which are of great importance if we want to deal with the migration crisis. the report first outlines the political and policy landscape and secondly sets out in a clear manner a number of recommendations including calls for an increase in the budget of the esf, the creation of a uniform common european asylum system and a revision of the reception conditions directive and the blue card directive.
in writing. we support the report and call on the commission and the member states to mainstream a gender-based approach in all their policies, including the eu's trade policy, and to ensure, inter alia, effective compliance with the united nations convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (cedaw).
in writing. ‒ the the report explicitly notes the need to make the obligation to respect human rights, which must be universal and monitored continuously, legally binding when the eu concludes international trade agreements. it also called for the inclusion of a legally binding human rights clause in the current trade negotiations with eu partners, in particular those concerning ttip. the report also recalls the proposal to grant the international labour organisation official observer status at the world trade organisation and to set up a committee on trade and decent work. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. we support the report, as we believe that an effective, integrated and dynamic trade and investment policy is of fundamental importance for the european union.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. the commission has not yet adopted the proposal. the report follows the trend with regard to free trade agreements. the report's positive aspects include calls for a greater role for parliament and for impact analyses of the possible impact of such agreements, but no criticism of the policies pursued and their impact on citizens. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. we support the report and stress that trafficking in human beings is a modern form of slavery and a serious crime which constitutes one of the worst forms of human rights violations and cannot be tolerated in societies based on respect for human rights, including gender equality.
in writing. ‒ the the report contains very important elements and proposals for dealing with trafficking in human beings. a broad analysis is made of what human trafficking is, what forms it takes and specifically which categories of the population are most vulnerable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the regions concerned. the report calls on the commission and the external action service to raise this issue in the context of the union's external action and to seek international cooperation to combat the phenomenon and to support victims of trafficking. however, the references to operation sophia, which we as a group disagree with, and to measures to strengthen the borders and controls, force us to abstain.
in writing. ‒ the report takes a very clear stand against human trafficking in all its forms: sexual exploitation, forced labour, forced surrogacy, forced begging, torture and extortion, organ removal, etc. the numbers are staggering as an estimated 35 million people worldwide are victims and the annual profits of the illegal human trafficking trade are hundreds of billions of euros. closer international cooperation, exchange of information, not only on fighting human trafficking itself, but also in recovering the illegal profits made are important elements towards fighting human trafficking. the development in a growing number of member states to criminalise the knowing use of sexual services of trafficked persons is very important in order to fight human trafficking.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, we have said this too many times. we agree to tax transparency, we agree to fair tax competition, we agree to stamp out those real tax havens. i believe, however, that with the intense overzealousness that is being shown, the european union will eventually destroy its own financial centres and drive all companies, both domestic and foreign, to other tax havens and other countries, where the european union will be unable to exercise any control. we are in favour of fair taxation and fair taxation and social justice. but for all this to happen, there have to be companies. if all these companies cannot be taxed and they leave our countries, and we give them away to countries outside the european union, at the end of the day, all we get is talk of blacklists, it's... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tax evasion and tax avoidance. none of us are in favour of tax havens and we must fight them. but we must admit: firstly, the european union has the toughest and most stringent tax framework in its countries, but also the strictest framework in transparency, a framework that other countries, and particularly america, do not have. secondly, and this is important, each country in the european union has the possibility and the freedom to have its own tax rates, but not to avoid or evade taxes. having your own tax rate doesn't mean you're cheating on your taxes, you're just doing it to be strong and powerful in the competition. i believe that with the current trend, with extreme positions and positions that actually go to the point of wanting to impose a common corporate tax rate, what we will destroy is our own business centres, our own financial centres and we will actually make and end ...
the commission mr president, despite all the pessimism, suspicion and vacillation, the european union can be made better. i will speak about some issues that can increase the wavering confidence of small states in brussels, and i certainly welcome the work of the commission and the member states, who are actively promoting the war against tax evasion. but i think that the proposal for a single corporate tax rate is contrary to the practice of free competition and does not in any way combat tax evasion, while with the increase in corporate tax most companies will be diverted outside the european union with disastrous consequences for small states, and i am referring to the republic of cyprus. already, london is cutting corporate tax from 20% to 15%. on migration, the commission should closely monitor the implementation of the eu-turkey agreement and should not proceed to visa waiver for turkish passports if turkey does not meet all the criteria. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. there must also be a mechanism for automatically suspending the visa waiver.
in writing. we support the report and stress that azerbaijan is an important partner of the eu. however, the importance of eu-azerbaijan relations is not limited to energy security, and the pivotal nature of this partnership needs to be considered in the context of all aspects of cooperation considered in the eastern partnership.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns the eu-azerbaijan cooperation framework and the latter's participation in union programmes. we have abstained because on the one hand this is the will of the azerbaijani authorities, but on the other hand these agreements lead to free trade agreements with all the negative effects they have on the peoples and with which we naturally disagree.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report concerning the participation of azerbaijan in union programmes, as i am deeply convinced that azerbaijan is a dictatorial country, with a ruthless regime, which violates every human right of people, which spends a huge amount of funds on weapons equipment, while it abandons people in an abject situation of poverty and misery. azerbaijan is also engaged in acts of terror against neighbouring countries and especially against nagorno-karabakh, by making unprovoked attacks – killing civilians and soldiers – and by constantly jeopardising peace in the region. i believe that, if azerbaijan is not in line with the values and principles of the eu, this country cannot have any relationship with it either.
in writing. we support the report and insist that, instead of adjusting the gni contribution, the union budget should be able to reuse any surplus resulting from late absorption of appropriations or fines imposed on companies for breaches of union competition law in order to meet its financial needs, especially in the context of payment defaults, and we expect this issue to be addressed in the context of the revision of the mff.
in writing. ‒ the report in question concerned the council's position on draft amending budget no 2/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016, and in particular the recording of the surplus for the financial year 2015. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. we support the report and consider that the security of network and information systems is key to european security.
in writing. ‒ the network and information security (nis) is becoming increasingly important for the economy and society. the ida is also a prerequisite for a credible environment for trade in services on a global scale. information systems may be affected by security-threatening events such as human error, natural phenomena, technical failures or malicious attacks. these events are getting bigger, more complex, and occurring more frequently. the absence of ipas can put at risk vital services that depend on the integrity of network and information systems. this may lead to the closure of businesses, cause significant economic damage to the economy and adversely affect social welfare.
in writing. we support the report as we believe it serves the objective of further exploiting the potential of energy efficiency to limit energy demand and consequently reduce the european union's energy dependence.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report on energy efficiency labelling as it includes deleting misleading symbols and moving to a simpler, uniform labelling system from a to g. this will help consumers make informed choices and thus save energy, but also money.
in writing. we support the report as we believe that the european border and coast guard can strengthen europe's external borders. the protection of the external borders is a shared responsibility of the member states of the european union and can help to solve the refugee problem.
in writing. ‒ the despite the improvements in some respects, the philosophy and the aim of the proposed regulation finds the eac/cfsp contradictory. as a group we tabled an amendment rejecting the motion altogether. we have already opposed the upgrading of frontex and the creation of a joint eu border and coast guard force. frontex is accused of not only failing to respond to these tragedies, but also of systematically violating the fundamental human rights of refugees. our position is that the eu should have already replaced frontex with multinational search and rescue operations for refugees, drawing on the valuable experience of humanitarian actors. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. we support the report and stress that the application of the regulation does not affect the allocation of competences between the union and the member states, nor the obligations of the member states under international conventions.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing a european maritime safety agency, as the report in question aims to further strengthen the frontex system.
in writing. we support the report and agree with the rapporteur that this proposal will enable the three agencies to support national authorities and to act jointly and effectively to take on mainly control, safety and surveillance operations, providing information, equipment, training and ensuring the necessary coordination of multipurpose operations. this cooperation is necessary, particularly in the current context of migratory flows.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 768/2005 establishing a community fisheries control agency, as it amends the role of organisations dealing with maritime issues in order to contribute to the objectives of frontex.
in writing. we support the report as we believe that it aims to strengthen the independence of the olaf supervisory committee secretariat so that the committee can function more effectively.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report on the amendment of regulation (eu, euratom) no 883/2013 as regards the secretariat of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office (olaf), as safeguards have been introduced so that those working at olaf are not exposed to risk. moreover, the proposed changes to the regulation do not entail any additional costs to the budget.
in writing. we support the report and stress that the eu budget must respond to the eu's political and strategic priorities and ensure a balance between long-term priorities and new challenges.
in writing. ‒ the report on the preparation of the post-monthly review of the mff 2014-2020: the commission's proposal is a contribution to the european parliament's efforts to promote austerity policies, as has been the case in previous years. this report gave the general direction for a revision of the mff, but did not increase the funds for social expenditure. on the contrary, it merely confirmed the lack of money in specific cases due to the frontloading of funds for youth unemployment without renewing them. we therefore voted against it.
in writing. we are voting against the report because we disagree with certain points. we agree with tax transparency and fair tax competition. we believe, however, that the european union is in danger of destroying its own financial centres and of driving all companies, both domestic and foreign, into other tax havens and other countries, where the european union will be unable to exercise any control.
in writing. ‒ the the report on tax rulings avoids to show the responsibilities of the existing financial system, questions or blames the system for the current situation and the inability to fight fraud and tax evasion. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the basis of the information provided by the member states. that is why we voted against.
in writing. ‒ while i do welcome the work of the commission and member states in actively promoting the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, the proposal concerning a common consolidated tax base on corporations referred to in this report would be highly harmful for islands and peripheral regions of the eu, with a massive impact on their companies’ competitiveness with other eu companies. this is a field where member states must have exclusive competence in the spirit of subsidiarity. that is why i voted against this report as a whole.
in writing. we support the resolution and stress that cohesion policy should be fully aligned with the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and based on the structuring of its three funds the european regional development fund (erdf), the european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund (cf) as well as on broader coordination under the common strategic framework (csf) with the rural development funds, namely the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and, in the maritime and fisheries sector, the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff).
in writing. ‒ the the resolution makes no reference to cohesion policy as the eu's policy which should focus on welfare extension and bridging the economic, social and territorial differences between member states. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the common agricultural policy is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. we support the report and underline that the commission, in cooperation with the member states and the social partners, must strengthen the european social dialogue with the aim of better reconciling labour markets and social protection requirements in order to tackle social inequalities and competitiveness challenges.
in writing. ‒ as a group, we tabled our overall proposal for the commission's work programme for 2017. we believe that our proposal was in the right direction, unlike the joint resolution following the one that has caused so much suffering to the peoples of europe. that is why we voted against the joint resolution.
in writing. we express our deep concern at this decision by japan and call on the commission, the eeas and the member states to raise on a permanent basis the issue of alleged scientific whaling in japan, with a view to eradicating this practice through bilateral and multilateral channels.
in writing. ‒ the in november 2015, the japan fisheries agency notified the international whaling commission of the resumption of whaling under a new whaling programme for scientific and research purposes. the joint resolution strongly condemns this stance of japan and calls on it to reconsider and comply with the decision of the international court of justice. we voted for the resolution.
in writing. we support the report, as we believe that granting an eu guarantee at this stage would be untimely and premature.
in writing. we object to the commission delegated regulation supplementing directive 2014/58/eu of the european parliament and of the council with regard to regulatory technical standards specifying the criteria on the methodology for setting the minimum own funds requirement and eligible liabilities, and ask the commission to submit a new delegated act.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the word 'prevention' is repeatedly used. prevention was both the invasion of iraq and the invasion of syria. i don't think there are many people here who don't talk about arab winter instead of arab spring anymore. mr tony blair, the leader of a nato member country with which you are working, invaded iraq in search of a bottle of chemicals, resulting in perhaps 500,000 deaths since then. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know only one thing: either the european union will become a beacon of new ideas, of humanistic ideas, or its decay will lead to disaster.
the commission madam president, the palestinian question must be resolved on the basis of mutual recognition of israel and palestine. terrorist acts and harsh retaliation for security reasons always lead to destabilization and hatred. israel must understand that the stranglehold and the attempt to humiliate the people of palestine, but also the cruel and excessive violence, which i have personally experienced because i lived through all three wars since the second intifada in gaza, offer fertile ground to hamas and any other terrorist organization. the european union and the united nations have the duty to apply law and democracy without deviation. the two-state solution with an independent, democratic, secular and viable palestinian state encompassing the entire west bank and gaza, with a road link between the two areas, and with its own exclusive economic zone is what is being sought, while of course recognizing the state of israel by the arab states and eliminating any attempt to destroy it. the palestinians should have been given protection and support by the european union long ago.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, declarations and wishes are not enough to bring about peace. the peace process requires israel to lift the occupation, to stop settlement and displacement, to release the palestinians it has arbitrarily imprisoned and to respect all palestinian rights. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but the conqueror cannot be equated with the people under military occupation. today, the israeli occupying forces and the more than 570,000 settlers living in the occupied palestinian territories are abusing the land of the palestinian people and violating their human rights and fundamental freedoms on a daily basis. the report rightly states that israeli settlements, house demolitions and land seizures undermine the viability of the two-state solution. but it is shameful and unacceptable to put the palestinian resistance on the same scale as criticism of the palestinians. enough with the complicity, enough with the impunity! the european union and the international community must stop denying their responsibilities and put the necessary pressure on israel to commit itself immediately to a road map for peace leading to the establishment of a palestinian people on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital. the european union must, in order to respect its principles and declarations, withdraw and suspend the association agreement with israel and stop violating article 2 which violates human rights.
in writing. we support the report, and underline the important role of the un as a guarantor of global security and stability.
in writing. ‒ the report focuses on the priorities for the 71st session of the un general assembly. we support the need for international cooperation within the un framework, but reject the use of military means to resolve disputes, as well as the call for member states to speak with one voice. for these reasons we have abstained.
in writing. we support the report and stress the role of the eu institutions, which must play an exemplary role in the implementation of the convention. the staff regulations, the procedures for the appointment and retention of staff and public events organised by the european parliament and on its premises are at the heart of this procedure.
in writing. ‒ the the own-initiative report was intended to ensure that parliament's view was included in the commission's report, which is due to be published in september. the report contains a number of positive elements, emphasising the rights of women and girls with disabilities and recognising the role that the economic crisis has played in providing quality services for people with disabilities. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. we oppose the adoption of the draft commission regulation as we consider that this draft commission regulation is not compatible with the purpose and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i think that the matter we are discussing is very serious. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be able to take part in the negotiations, and that is why i am not going to vote for the report. i think that this debate should take place in another sitting with more people in the chamber and not on monday afternoon.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between a member state and a third country is a very good one. the big companies will be the only ones to benefit, as they will be able to operate and act freely and increase their profits. for those of us on the left, it is clear that energy must be secured as a public social good to which we all have equal and cheap access. equally important is that the provision of energy to citizens is a matter of national policy, defined on the basis of the needs of the country and the people, with the aim of social development. finally, the design of the electricity market should be based on an integrated proposal to support and develop renewable energy sources, which is also missing from the report. we shall therefore vote against the report, since its sole aim is to make energy a tool for promoting large private interests and competitiveness in the union.
the commission i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a building. the european union must do everything possible to help in this direction, not only to extinguish the fires but also to repair the damage. energy issues are certainly of paramount importance to the european union, the member states and consumers. and consumers are not more concerned by the left members who are in denial on these issues and do not realise that through the re-design of the energy market there will be greater energy efficiency, which also means lower costs for consumers. but the key words here are greater energy efficiency and energy security. energy security, commissioner, and i am addressing you, if that is really our objective, by saying that we must turn to those countries which have the potential for future energy support from the european union. the eastern mediterranean is a great opportunity for this and i would ask you to take the initiative to make cyprus a coordinating energy hub and hub. the european union must be able to make europe truly independent, through and from this factor of energy wealth, through a member state of the european union. but at the same time i would like to stress that for isolated countries, and in particular island regions, which are likely to be excluded from the single internal energy market because of their interconnection, there must be other kinds of support and assistance. i would like to conclude, mr president, by stressing that these countries, particularly those in the mediterranean, have comparative advantages in terms of renewable energy sources.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. it is our firm belief that small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of the european economy. they represent more than 90% of all european enterprises and employ two thirds of the workforce in europe. it is clear that the development of smes is a crucial prerequisite for boosting europe's competitiveness and attracting investment and production units. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. for the period 2007-2013, with the support of cohesion policy, €70 billion was allocated to support companies, especially smes, and we welcome the target of doubling this amount for the period 2014-2020.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the first report by the committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen, is confined to describing the work programme and does not make any political judgments, since the inquiry is still ongoing. but that does not mean that the first conclusions have not already been drawn. on the contrary, after hours of hearings and study of internal documents, it is now clear that there are serious political responsibilities. both the 2010 estimates and the 2013 study by the commission's joint research centre confirmed that there was a possibility of measurement bias. and yet, no action was taken. the commission was aware of the possibility of fraud but did nothing on the pretext that it was not aware of specific cases. the member states, although informed, also did not carry out any checks. moreover, while it was known that the emissions measurements are much higher under real conditions than the values recorded in laboratories, it was not requested to carry out checks only under real road conditions. there were therefore significant failures on the part of both the commission and the member states in the application of union law and the imposition of sanctions. but let's call it what it is: the gaps in legislation, the strong pressure from the car industry and the safety net of multinational companies have led to the political scandal over emissions measurements. because the volkswagen fraud is not an isolated case. we, colleagues, will continue the investigation and apply further pressure. we will always cooperate constructively with the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs to get the result. we want to put an end to all practices that seek to make unfair profits at the expense of public health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that continuously improving the eu's capacity for innovation is crucial. ris3s need to be constantly reviewed as they relate to a constantly changing space.
in writing. we voted against the report as it promotes the development of innovation by providing a wide range of incentives for balanced growth through investment in disadvantaged areas, regions as well as less developed, rural and island areas.
in writing. ‒ the improving the eu's capacity for innovation and specialisation is of fundamental importance. better strategies should be developed in ris3 areas and adapted to changes in the specialisation sectors. the effective implementation of these strategies requires the facilitation and simplification of the various administrative procedures. there are a number of ways of stimulating research and innovation which can contribute to job creation. finally, the importance of evaluating these innovations and the process leading to research and specialisation should not be overlooked. for proper evaluation, it is necessary to use proper qualitative and quantitative measures and to publish valid reports analysing the impact of ris3 strategies.
in writing. ‒ the in the current economic recession and financial and social crisis, we want the eu to become a smart, sustainable and unconstrained economy within the framework of the europe 2020 strategy. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. these strategies, drawn up by national and regional authorities across europe, help to make more efficient use of the eu's structural and investment funds and to increase synergies between different national and regional policies at eu level, as well as between public and private investment. in addition, ris3 will contribute to making the european economy more competitive, creating european added value in innovation, creating more and better high-quality jobs and adding a wide range of new experiences; it is very positive that ris3 support job creation not only in important research and innovation hubs but also in less developed and rural areas. i voted in favour of the report which focuses on the main areas of improvement needed to improve the design of strategies.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report as it promotes the development of innovation by giving a wide range of recommendations for balanced growth through investment in disadvantaged areas, regions as well as less developed, rural and island areas. it also places particular emphasis on the use of technological development to create new quality jobs and support smes.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and agree with the rapporteur's position on the need to reduce the bureaucracy involved in the management and implementation of esf programmes and projects. implementation of esi programmes remains complex and we therefore ask the high level group of independent experts on simplification for the beneficiaries of the european structural and investment funds to consider measures to simplify and reduce the administrative burden on beneficiaries.
in writing. in 1990, interreg was developed as a community initiative with a budget of just eur 1 billion covering crossborder cooperation only and with 11 member states as beneficiaries. interreg was later extended to transnational and interregional cooperation. the commission has also adopted a specific regulation covering the esi funds with erdf support for the period 2014-2020. the esf currently has 28 beneficiary member states and is allocated to one of the two objectives of cohesion policy. we voted against the report because it guarantees: - improved regional connectivity, mobility and accessibility to services; - transfer of knowledge and innovation, enhancing the competitiveness of smes; - addressing environmental challenges, better risk management and disaster response; - enhancing institutional capacity and social capital development, consolidating cross-border network structures and creating new partnerships, and also contributing to territorial cohesion.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of european territorial cooperation (etc) because it strengthens the economic, social and territorial potential of the regions and leads to crossborder and transnational cooperation, since it integrates different sectoral policies across national borders. it also promotes safety and helps to overcome barriers related to education, health care, transport and energy. the eia is undoubtedly achieving best practices in areas such as better regional connectivity, mobility and accessibility to services, knowledge and innovation transfer, in addressing many environmental challenges through the application of environmental best practices. finally, the esf supports research and innovation as research processes can be carried out on a larger scale. for all these reasons, i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on european territorial cooperation (etc) because it highlights the importance of the etc as an important instrument of planning cohesion policy to solve problems that transcend administrative boundaries and require common solutions. the esf contributes significantly to strengthening the economic, social and territorial potential of the regions, as it reflects and integrates different sectoral policies at a territorial scale, transcending national borders (cross-border and transnational cooperation), as well as in individual cities and regions (interregional cooperation). despite the small budget, the esi projects have tangible results: removing barriers to better safety, transferring knowledge and innovation, improving regional connectivity, boosting the competitiveness of smes and tackling environmental challenges. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and welcome the transparency for the public regarding the work of the committees, subject to confidentiality where necessary, as through the dedicated emis website, committee members and the public can find all relevant information related to the committee's work.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report which provides for the continuation of the committee's efforts to investigate allegations of breaches or mismanagement in the application of community law in relation to emission measurements in the motor vehicle industry. the committee is now called upon to gather and analyse the information in order to ascertain whether the commission and the member states had evidence of the use of suspension mechanisms and to make any recommendations it deems appropriate on the subject. in addition, the transparency of these measures is a matter which must be clarified as soon as possible, something which is further reinforced by the increased action of the committee since the resolution.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because it is limited to describing the work programme and does not make any political assessment because the investigation is still ongoing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on the contrary, after hours of hearings and study of internal documents it is now clear that there are serious political responsibilities. both the 2010 estimates and the 2013 study by the commission's joint research centre confirmed that there was a possibility of measurement bias, but no action was taken. the commission was aware of the possibility of fraud but did nothing on the pretext that it was not aware of specific cases. the member states, although informed, also did not carry out any checks. there were therefore significant failures on the part of both the commission and the member states in the application of union law and in the imposition of sanctions. the gaps in legislation, the strong pressure from the automotive industry and the protection network of multinational companies led to the political scandal with the emission measurements. we will continue the investigation and apply further pressure. we want to put an end to all practices which, in pursuit of illicit profit, have serious consequences for public health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the we support the report, as the facts of the request for waiver of immunity and the hearing of istván ujhelyi show that the statements were made at a time when he was not a member of the european parliament. according to the commission, therefore, when istván ujhelyi made the statements at issue, he was not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. the fact that hungarian legislation recognises that candidates for election to the national or european parliament enjoy parliamentary immunity under national procedures in no way affects the above conclusion for the purposes of the european parliament procedure.
in writing. we voted against the report on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of istván ujhelyi, since the present case in which the waiver of his immunity is sought took place before he was elected as an mep.
in writing. ‒ we support the report because when mr rosario crocetta was a member of the european parliament, and especially when he made the statements in question, he was actively involved, at political level, in the fight against organised crime and its effects on politics and the economy, particularly in the area of public procurement in the field of environmental policy. he was vice-chairman of the european parliament's select committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering and was a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. we voted against mr crocetta's request for protection so that his parliamentary immunity would not be waived. there is no doubt that, when mr crocetta made the statements at issue (for which he is accused), he raised a matter of general concern to european citizens, namely the alleged influence of organised crime on specific public procurement procedures with significant economic and environmental consequences, as well as on well-known politicians, an issue which can be considered as one of the key tasks of members of the european parliament. in view of the circumstances of the case and the content of the statements, mr crocetta's allegations demonstrate a direct and manifest link with his activities as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we support the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr sothirios zarianopoulos, taking into account that the greek authorities intend to prosecute mr sothirios zarianopoulos for breach of duty in council.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the agreement with the people's republic of china and believe that the latter is entitled to the restoration of its previous trade rights, which were slightly restricted due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with the accession of croatia.
in writing. the accession of the republic of croatia has led to the enlargement of the customs union of the european union. the european union was therefore obliged, in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), to enter into negotiations with the wto members having negotiating rights on the tariff schedule of croatia with a view to reaching a final agreement on a compensatory adjustment. in this context, the commission proposes to the council to sign on behalf of the union the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters with the people's republic of china. at the same time, a separate proposal for the conclusion of the agreement is also submitted to the council. we voted against the motion because the report was balanced.
in writing. ‒ we support the report in order to complete the process of ratifying the additional protocol.
in writing. ‒ we support the appointment of lazaros stavros lazaros, as he meets all the criteria.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the renewal of the mandate of the cypriot member, mr lazaros lazaros, who has been a member of the court of auditors since 2010, and i wish him well in his work.
in writing. ‒ we support the report on the appointment of joão figueiredo, as he meets all the criteria.
in writing. ‒ after assessing the nomination, we vote against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the amendment of regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics, which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy that refers to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we believe that the voluntary basis should be transformed into a mandatory one, so as to avoid problems in the collection of data by some member states. this step is necessary to avoid a decline in the quality of the research on electricity and gas price data for the household sector and to continue to achieve broad market coverage and high quality pricing data.
in writing. ‒ the the report's main objective is to promote reforms to enhance competitiveness and complete the single market for gas and electricity. we believe that it is very important to increase transparency in the prices charged to household consumers for both natural gas and electricity. our main objective is to protect citizens from unfair profits and to secure the supply of energy to households at the lowest possible prices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the it is very important for us to increase transparency in the prices charged to household consumers for both natural gas and electricity. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council will be consulted on the matter. however, unfortunately the report does not move in that direction but its main objective is to promote reforms to enhance competitiveness and complete the single market for gas and electricity. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report which promotes the objectives of energy policy, namely security of energy supply, environmental sustainability and the setting of appropriate prices. this should facilitate the use of new technologies and investment, in particular in renewable energy sources and low-carbon power plants.
in writing. ‒ the the report aims to abolish national policies and to strengthen the commission's powers to unify the market and create a pan-european electricity market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the big companies will be the only ones to benefit, as they will be able to operate freely and increase their profits. we are convinced that energy must be safeguarded as a public good, to which everyone can have equal and cheap access. the provision of energy to citizens should also be a matter of national policy, determined by the needs of the country and the people, always with a view to social development. finally, the design of the electricity market should be based on an integrated proposal to support and develop renewable energy sources, which is also missing from the report. the report is a report which is not only about the energy sector but also about the energy sector itself.
in writing. ‒ the the redesign of the eu energy market is a major issue for both the union and its member states. in order to achieve energy policy objectives, it is important to facilitate the use of new technologies and to invest, in particular in renewable energy sources and low-carbon power plants. the energy challenges facing europe can be addressed through better integration and coordination of energy markets, providing many opportunities to achieve the common european objectives of a more secure, cost-effective and environmentally sustainable energy supply. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the the abolition of national policies and the strengthening of the commission's powers to unify the market and create a pan-european electricity market, as proposed in the report, will have disastrous consequences for consumers. the big companies will be the only ones to benefit, as they will be able to operate freely and increase their profits. we are clear that energy must be safeguarded as a public social good, to which we all have equal and cheap access. equally important is that the provision of energy to citizens is a matter of national policy, defined on the basis of the needs of the country and the people, always with a view to social development. finally, the design of the electricity market should be based on a comprehensive proposal to support and develop renewable energy sources, which is also missing from the report. we therefore voted against the report because its sole objective is to make energy a tool for strengthening private interests and the competitiveness of the eu.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and recall that in the mediterranean countries of europe, cooling is a matter of growing concern, and is linked to the gradual climatic increase in temperature. appropriate architectural solutions, insulation and reversible heat pumps - which draw heat from a room in hot weather and channel it when heating is required - can play an important role in solving this problem.
in writing. ‒ the the report makes a number of positive suggestions concerning the promotion of renewable energy sources, the need to combat energy poverty and support vulnerable groups, the increase in funding for housing renovation and for households outside areas with central heating and cooling systems. however, there is a problematic assessment that the key to fighting energy poverty is to increase energy efficiency to reduce overall costs. the proposal seeks to disorient and silence the main cause of energy poverty, which is the neoliberal policies of severe austerity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ the the issue of heating and cooling is more topical in some member states than in others. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the effects of the climate change. solutions such as proper building architecture and insulation, and reversible heat pumps, could play an important role in solving the problem. i am voting against the eu heating and cooling strategy because it is an integral part of the energy union strategy and of achieving the eu's 2020, 2030 and 2050 energy and climate goals. it should also be noted that the amount of heat produced by the various industries is sufficient to cover all the heating needs of residential buildings. in addition, i am in favour of the eu's heating and cooling strategy as it provides significant opportunities for eu businesses and consumers if implemented properly. consumers should be at the heart of this strategy through the use of modern technologies and innovative solutions.
in writing. ‒ the the energy union strategy promises to provide all europeans with secure, sustainable and competitive energy, which requires a fundamental change in our energy landscape. among the package of measures to achieve this is the eu's heating and cooling strategy. heating and cooling buildings and industry consume half of the eu's energy. this not only means consuming more energy than is needed, but also means a financial burden for many families in europe. the proposed heating and cooling strategy focuses on removing the barriers to decarbonisation of buildings and industry. increasing energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources will also have an impact on the security of energy supply. i voted in favour of the report which calls for ambitious reforms in the energy sector to make it more efficient, environmentally responsible and socially oriented. there is an urgent need to take measures to reduce co2 emissions and avoid a dangerous global warming. this is why the eu should set a binding target of reducing energy consumption by 40% by 2030.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because it contains many positive proposals on the promotion of renewable energy sources, the need to combat energy poverty and support vulnerable groups, the need to increase funding for housing renovation and for households outside areas with central heating and cooling systems. however, we separate our position from the erroneous assessment that the key to fighting energy poverty is to increase energy efficiency to reduce overall costs. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs intended for human consumption is a very good one.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and underline that small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are essential to the economy of eu regions, both in terms of employment and competitiveness.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the sme report. the report calls for simplification of procedures for granting loans to smes. the report also includes references to the criticism of austerity policies which have caused a number of problems for smes.
in writing. ‒ the i vote against the implementation of the thematic objective of improving the competitiveness of smes because smes are undoubtedly essential and necessary for the economy of the eu regions in matters relating to employment and competitiveness. smes are the backbone of the eu economy and are essential for job creation, they are the main drivers of sustainable job creation for all member states. supporting, establishing and developing smes and micro-enterprises are the main sources of job creation in the eu. local authorities should undoubtedly be involved in and monitor all programmes supported by the european regional development fund (erdf) and the european social fund (esf). bank lending to smes should be encouraged and promoted. finally, smes must have a favourable business environment in which environmental damage can be avoided and prevented and green ideas can be developed. smes and entrepreneurs themselves need a supportive environment to gradually move to a circular economy. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) are essential to the economy of the eu regions in terms of employment and competitiveness, which is why i voted in favour of the report on improving the competitiveness of smes. the report stresses the need to simplify administrative procedures and improve access to finance for smes. it also emphasises the role of local governments, which are directly or indirectly involved in monitoring committees of the programme. however, many local authorities still lack the administrative capacity to participate in operational programmes (ops) on a regular basis. therefore, their technical assistance and early participation in discussions on the ops is vital. finally, bank lending to smes should be encouraged and promoted.
in writing. ‒ we support the report. the eusalp strategy does not overlap with existing interregional and cross-border cooperation, but adds value to it. it is about pursuing common objectives throughout the region, in line with the major european objectives of the europe 2020 strategy on sustainable development, the environment and energy.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's water resources are not depleted, and that the community's water resources are not depleted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ this is the eu's fourth macro-regional strategy. the eusalp strategy, which covers 80 million people in 7 countries and 48 regions inside and outside the eu, covers the alpine region, a region which has already been involved in several cooperation agreements. however, the area has poor transport links and logistical problems for manufacturers and suffers from the consequences of climate change. the local, regional and national authorities must therefore take action in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity to address the problems throughout the region. the strategy is built on a number of pillars, which are reflected in the report and which include proposals to improve competitiveness, prosperity and cohesion, accessibility and transport links for all in the alpine region, the protection of the alpine cultural heritage and the promotion of the sustainable use of natural and cultural resources. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's water resources are not depleted, and that the community's water resources are not depleted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that eu migration policies should focus primarily on addressing the root causes of migration.
in writing. we voted against the report on the eu trust fund for africa (development and humanitarian impact) as the fund continues to be another instrument that perpetuates the current migration crisis by using its development funds to control and manage migration flows while also strengthening the 'fortress europe' approach.
in writing. ‒ the i support the resolution relating to the eu trust fund for africa on issues related to development impact and humanitarian aid and believe that it is necessary to find a more integrated solution for emergency funding in the context of the revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff). new appropriations should be created and transparency should be ensured in matters concerning the origin and destination of funds. i would also stress that a balance must be struck in the funding received by national governments for issues relating to public awareness. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. finally, i support this resolution and i believe that the commission should act more vigilantly, particularly in the areas of development and the fight against traffickers, and should make the necessary agreements with the countries on the trust fund.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report because the eu trust fund for africa set up at the valletta summit is an important tool for the effective implementation of the action plan agreed between the eu and african countries and it addresses the most important challenges in the area of migration. in particular, the commission will continue to support the implementation of the union's policy on migration and asylum, in particular by supporting the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and migration integration, including the implementation of the union's policy on migration and asylum, and by supporting the implementation of the union's policy on migration and asylum, in particular by supporting the implementation of the union's policy on migration and asylum, and by supporting the implementation of the union's policy on migration and asylum. however, there must be guarantees as to the type of actions financed through the trust. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. instead, they should be used exclusively for development projects in the fields of education, health care and infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and agree with the rapporteurs that the need to modernise work-life balance at eu level is obvious for several reasons: society has become aware of demographic changes driving more care needs, new ways of working have emerged, unemployment remains at unprecedentedly high levels, the diversity of family relationships and child-rearing arrangements has increased, motherhood continues to have a strikingly negative impact on women's employment rates and the current eu framework is proving inadequate to address this most important aspect of persistent gender inequalities.
in writing. we voted against the report because it is critical of austerity measures and the increase in working hours, and also recognises the existence of precarious forms of work in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to work is not infringed, and that the right to work is not infringed. i am voting against the resolution on creating conditions in the labour market which favour work-life balance because this will contribute to the individual's personal progress but will also benefit society as a whole because personal well-being is directly linked to social well-being. balanced individuals are more productive and efficient in what they do. finally, the need for work-life balance and the promotion and increase of women's participation in the labour market is essential because the modernisation of the existing legal framework makes it possible to achieve a better balance for parents with children or dependent relatives. this is vital if we are to achieve true gender equality and the exploitation of people's abilities and talents.
in writing. ‒ the in recent decades, the reconciliation of work, private and family life has been recognised as a fundamental right. however, in the absence of effective and adequate maternity, paternity and parental leave, parents are forced to choose between family and professional life. it is time for the eu to take action to promote an upward convergence between member states on work-life balance solutions. this is vital if we are to achieve real gender equality, tackle labour, child and women's poverty and better exploit people's skills by taking action to tackle demographic challenges in the eu. i voted in favour of the report, which calls on the commission to step up its work to make further progress towards ensuring a satisfactory work-life balance for all. this balance will contribute to increasing women's participation in the labour market by modernising and adapting the current eu legal and policy framework to the current labour market, to a greater distribution of caring responsibilities between women and men, and to strengthening gender equality in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the although we know that the eu's labour policies cannot be transformed into human-centred policies as they are part of its economic policies, we supported this report because it contains some positive elements. some of these are: criticism of austerity measures and increased working hours, recognition of unsafe forms of work in the union, and recognition that any work-life balance policies will not positively affect workers' lives unless accompanied by policies to improve their quality of life.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. with all the tragedies that are happening in turkey, with the violation of human rights, with the kurdish issue, with the razing of virtually entire villages, and turkey entering syria as an invading force and violating rights but also displacing kurdish forces, and at the same time taking into account that turkey does not apply and does not meet the criteria and conditions for the european union, in particular with regard to respecting the ankara protocol on the recognition of the republic of cyprus, do you still believe that turkey can be a strategic and crucial partner for the european union? the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people, and it is not a political union of the people. the european union has a duty to help the people of cyprus, and i am sure that the european union will do its utmost to help the people of cyprus. the key is in turkey and, to understand the extent to which the occupied territories are dependent on turkey, they imposed on the occupied ... (the president cut the speaker off) )
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, i would like to say to my friend lefteris christoforou that his question is fair but it should not have been put to mrs piri. it should have been submitted to mr brok. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i understand that what is happening in turkey today is a very complicated matter and i understand the difficulty of mrs mogherini. but while the european union and its representatives behave as if they represent a soft power, a flourishing european union, it is natural that we should deal with turkey in a way that is more conducive to it. it is making it easier for president erdoğan to continue this anti-democratic attitude towards his own citizens rather than showing him the right way. it has already been said that 100,000 people have left their jobs; some 3,000 judges have been dismissed from their jobs, as have more than 2,000 academics and more than 130 journalists. we cannot, while we are discussing poland, and we are, of course, very strongly criticising what is happening in that country, do the exact opposite when it comes to a country which is in the process of negotiating its accession. the kurdish issue, a huge issue, with 500,000 internally displaced people, and the attack on syria, another terrible issue, where in the end what do we have? we have a replacement of isis men who changed uniforms and have now become people of the so-called free syrian army. i would like to conclude with a word on cyprus, because there is a discussion about guarantees. how can turkey demand that the turkish army guarantee the democracy of cyprus when the turkish army cannot guarantee democracy in turkey itself?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. mrs. bildt, i have a very specific question for you. i am watching you here in the european parliament and my question is very simple: have you heard in the last few months about the thousands of judges who have been fired? have you heard about the thousands of teachers who have been fired on suspicion of collaborating with terrorism? have you heard about the invasion of syria? have you heard about the occupation of cyprus ? i can tell you more. with these you believe there is a rule of law in turkey? can anyone have a fair trial in turkey? answer us directly.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the report on social dumping is an important political act in itself, madam president, and we would like to thank the rapporteur, mr balas, for his decisive contribution. the disastrous effects of the neoliberal austerity policies and memoranda imposed on the member states are no longer hidden under the carpet. the advocates of deregulation of industrial relations and the so-called free market can no longer look elsewhere. the time has come to discuss the question of the deregulation of industrial relations and the real causes of unemployment and insecurity. we do not accept that it is difficult to find a common definition of social dumping. the precariousness of work, the decline in the number of workers covered by collective agreements, the increase in short-term contracts, the impoverishment of workers, chronic unemployment, especially among young people, and unequal pay are all social dumping. the conservative and neoliberal forces in this parliament must stop hiding behind technical terms and make it clear which side they are on: the big multinational companies that increase profits by sucking the workers, or the workers in europe who demand a decent life? the gue group is clearly opposed to the dismantling of the social fabric as a result of the neoliberal policies imposed by the stability pact and the european semester, and we will vote against the balas report because it recognises the existence of social dumping. it is recognized that neoliberal policies have failed.
in writing. mr. yuger admitted that the crisis is deepening. and he's right, you know? he forgot to say that the reason for this is because he continues to support the same neoliberal policies and insists on the harsh measures of the stability pact. it was acknowledged that unemployment rates, particularly among young people, are particularly high. how young people are doomed to live in greater poverty than their parents. how social dumping is a serious problem in europe. but how can the real economy be boosted when instead of promoting investment to create new quality jobs, the commission proposes to fund further eu rationalisation by creating a permanent high command and a european defence fund? solidarity cannot be achieved by the measures you propose to strengthen the frontiers and the fortress europe, but by a refugee policy based on humanity. the only way out of the crisis is a policy towards a europe of solidarity, peace, democracy and social justice.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and believe that both croatia and switzerland will benefit from signing this protocol iii, as they will derive political, economic and cultural benefits from the enlarged internal market, for which free movement is a vital element.
in writing. we voted against the report as both croatia and switzerland will benefit from signing this protocol iii, as they will derive political, economic and cultural benefits from the enlarged internal market, for which free movement is a vital element.
in writing. the report was technocratic in nature, and concerned the institutionalisation of social dialogue through the lisbon treaty. the treaty now names the president of the council as coordinator. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the report was technocratic in nature, and concerned the institutionalisation of social dialogue through the lisbon treaty. the treaty now names the president of the council as coordinator. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and support the uniform application of common technical specifications for inland waterway vessels in the european union, with a view to ensuring a high level of safety and efficiency in inland waterway transport.
in writing. we voted against the report which was purely technical since all the institutions agreed to the final text which ensures a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this proposal which ensures a high level of safety and efficiency in inland navigation in the eu. it also advocates rapid adaptation of standards to scientific and technical progress. it is necessary and appropriate to provide a harmonised and coherent framework to ensure the same level of safety for inland waterway vessels.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and believe that this ecowas has the potential to bring about fundamental positive change and contribute to sustainable economic growth and enhance intra-regional trade and integration.
in writing. we voted against the report because the agreement in question contains a number of problematic provisions which undermine the development of african countries, such as disproportionate competition for the agricultural sector, reduced real benefits from access to the european market, and loss of tax revenues.
in writing. ‒ we support the resolution stressing that fisheries workers need special protection, taking into account, inter alia, the specific nature of work on fishing vessels, the high number of fatal and non-fatal accidents, as well as the risk and incidence of occupational diseases, compared to other sectors, in a hazardous working environment, the unclear separation between working hours, rest and leisure and the impact of fatigue due to inadequate rest on health and safety; this includes the dissemination of informal and informal employment relationships and pay arrangements, including crew-sharing schemes.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against this proposal on work in the fisheries sector and the guarantee of decent working and living conditions on board vessels. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i welcome the fact that the agreement reached by the social partners and the commission's proposal establish more favourable measures for fishermen. finally, social protection and welfare should be ensured to ensure an adequate and decent income for workers and their families in this sector.
in writing. ‒ we welcome the commission's intention to pursue a constructive and productive dialogue with the polish government
in writing. ‒ the our positioning sends messages in two directions at once: the european union is also calling on the polish government to take all necessary measures to ensure that the polish authorities are able to comply with the international law and to ensure that the polish authorities are able to comply with the international law. we also stress that the eu should show similar concern about the violation of labour and social rights both in poland and throughout the union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. in any case, it is the peoples themselves, and not any third party, who will stop their countries' course towards authoritarianism and deep conservatism.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution tabled was abstained. our positioning sends messages in two directions at once: it sends a message to the polish government that we condemn and oppose its reactionary policies, its racism and xenophobia, its islamophobia and inhuman anti-immigration policies, its undemocratic concentration of power, its disturbing changes that undermine individual rights, the right to privacy and freedom of expression. but at the same time we are appalled by the hypocrisy and selectivity of the eu's ruling circles, who are not bothered by the violation of labour and social rights, who do not denounce institutional anti-communism in poland, who exploit the situation of fundamental rights in member states to intervene in their internal affairs. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, in which the ep renews its commitment to the tunisian people and to the political transition process launched in 2011.
in writing. ‒ the report contains a number of positive points. the eu is also committed to the development of a comprehensive and effective policy on the environment, and to the promotion of sustainable development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the first concerns the readmission agreement and the second the free trade agreement. the european parliament has always been opposed to these agreements, knowing the measures imposed on the states and especially on the peoples. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ the tunisia is a successful example in the arab world and its stabilisation is of paramount importance for the stability of the whole region. it is very important that the democratic transition in tunisia is consolidated and supported politically and economically. the terrorist attacks have had a devastating impact on the economy and unemployment, particularly among young people, remains high. given the critical nature of the problems affecting tunisia, more and better support is needed to contribute to capacity building for the institutions in tunisia in the field of justice as well as security sector reforms. i voted in favour of the report calling for a genuine, comprehensive and in-depth partnership between the eu and tunisia. without measures to strengthen tunisia's absorption capacity and stability, democracy, good governance, the fight against corruption, economic development and employment in the region, any prospect of reform will be jeopardised.
in writing. ‒ the the report has some positive points. it also assigns responsibilities and stresses that reforms are needed, particularly in the areas of justice, individual freedoms, the rights of specific groups of the population, etc., in order to strengthen the relationship with the eu. however, there are some problematic reports that we cannot ignore. the promotion of the free trade agreement with tunisia is particularly negative. free trade agreements are fully serving the interests of the eu's mainstream circles. they create interdependent relationships - economic and political - with their partners and promote extreme competition and investment to the benefit of big business and to the detriment of the interests of society and the people. for these reasons we abstained.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that social issues, and in particular the issue of unfair social competition, are of great concern to our fellow europeans. the importance of the european parliament's articulation of a strong and distinctive message, which will contribute to building a more social europe and, by extension, a europe more friendly to our citizens, is thus underlined.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report, although we think it could have had more positive elements. the vote on the report was a political act, because parliament itself now accepts the existence of insecurity in employment and the breakdown of industrial relations. we have a clear position against the disintegration of the social fabric as a result of the neoliberal policies imposed by the stability pact and the european semester. the report makes a first attempt to define social dumping, which the conservative and neoliberal forces in parliament have tried to reject. it is clear to us that the precariousness of work, the decline in the number of workers covered by collective agreements, the increase in short-term contracts, the impoverishment of workers and chronic unemployment, especially among young people, are social dumping. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the the construction and strengthening of the internal market must be given priority and the fact that there is a mismatch between the reality of an internal market and social rights, which are also very different, must not be overlooked. this situation creates a great deal of competition between businesses, since all european citizens do not have the same social rights and obligations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. for these reasons, i believe that it is necessary to put forward reforms and concrete proposals to guarantee and transfer the social rights of all european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report which calls for an end to social dumping and for all workers in europe to enjoy high levels of social protection and rights. unfair economic and social competition is an obstacle to maintaining a high level of social protection in europe. in particular, the intensification of competition between firms is forcing firms to reduce labour costs. this situation has the effect of weakening the social standards in force in the individual member states of the union and of gradually reducing the range of rights enjoyed by european employees. it is therefore necessary to protect workers from all over europe against exploitation, discrimination, undeclared work and other forms of social dumping due to the lack of adequate labour legislation at european level.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report, although we think it could have had more positive elements. the vote on a report with this title was a political act, because parliament itself now accepts the existence of insecurity in employment and the breakdown of industrial relations. we have a clear position against the disintegration of the social fabric as a result of the neoliberal policies imposed by the stability pact and the european semester. the report makes a first attempt to define social dumping, which the conservative and neoliberal forces in parliament have tried to reject. it is clear to us that the precariousness of work, the decline in the number of workers covered by collective agreements, the increase in short-term contracts, the impoverishment of workers and chronic unemployment, especially among young people, are social dumping. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and ask the commission to consider a proposal to postpone the date of application of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 without changing any other level 1 provision in order to ensure the smooth implementation of the requirements set out in the regulation and the delegated regulation, and to avoid the application of level 1 without the regulatory technical standards (rts) having been put into effect in advance.
in writing. ‒ the report rejects the commission regulation because consumer information is essential as the removal of credit risk from the calculation of the risk classification of insurance products would be misleading to investors and the treatment of multiple choice products still needs clarification, in particular in relation to the explicit capital exemption. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank mrs laura agea for her good work and for our good cooperation. last year the council took no account at all of parliament's report on the employment guidelines. this year, we are debating again in the same futile procedure, without the presence of the council. in my view, this is yet another striking example of the great democratic deficit that exists in the union. the neoliberal policies of harsh austerity and memoranda imposed on the people show the final face of the union. the deregulation of industrial relations, the downward pressure on wages and labour rights, the dismantling of the welfare state and social dumping are being imposed on the people to benefit multinationals and big capital. the objectives of increasing employment to 75% by 2020 and raising the standard of living above the poverty line for 20 million of our fellow citizens, reaffirmed in the report, are certainly in line with us. we can also take part in a debate on the minimum income guarantee if it is in the interest of workers, particularly the lower and middle classes. but despite all the good reports on workers' rights, we cannot support changes within the framework of the stability pact and the european semester. we insist on the abolition of these instruments, which impose the anti-people policies of impoverishment and harsh austerity. the gue/ngl group will therefore abstain from voting on the report on the employment guidelines.
madam president, in its report on exploiting the potential of small and mediumsized enterprises to create new jobs, the european parliament again invokes the free market as a "cure-all". it focuses on reducing so-called labour costs to promote new jobs in smes, and on labour market flexibility. we are not ignoring the good intentions of the rapporteurs and the improvements made to the text. the reference to ensuring the protection of workers, to any increase in flexibility and to supporting the development of cooperative enterprises is agreed. but we disagree with the general philosophy of the report. the general framework proposed for using small and mediumsized enterprises to create jobs does not guarantee the creation of new decent and permanent jobs. nor is there any mention of collective labour rights, i.e. social security, collective bargaining and collective agreements. the 'medicine' of neoliberal austerity policies and labour deregulation for 'supposed' economic growth has failed miserably, as statistics show that small and medium-sized enterprises have declined in recent years in the union.
in writing. ‒ having assessed the nomination of sir julian king, we vote in favour of his appointment as a member of the european commission.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as we believe that improving the rate of returns of irregular migrants is vital for the eu asylum system, for cooperation between eu member states and third countries and for maintaining the trust of eu citizens. if we want to stabilise the current migration crisis, ease the pressure on member states and eu agencies and increase capacity and save resources within the eu, then we are obliged to find a long-term solution.
in writing. ‒ we call on the committee responsible to reconsider the report.
in writing. ‒ the under this new regulation, access to finance for companies is one of the major issues that led to the crisis, and harmonising measures are proposed through which companies will reduce their 'bureaucratic' costs to make it easier for them to access finance. the aim of the regulation is to 'americanize' the european economy and the way banks are financed. further regulation and harmonisation of financial activities will probably result in more speculation than access to finance, as it is not access to finance that created the crisis but the lack of demand for corporate products from the ongoing austerity measures. this is an issue which the regulation fails to address fully. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the under this new regulation, access to finance for companies is one of the important issues that led to the crisis, and harmonising measures are proposed through which companies will reduce their 'bureaucratic' costs to be able to access finance more easily. the aim of the regulation is to 'americanize' the european economy and the way banks are financed. however, further regulation and harmonisation of financial activities is likely to result in more speculation than access to finance, as it is not access to finance that created the crisis but the lack of demand for corporate products from the ongoing austerity measures. this is an issue which the regulation fails to address fully. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and recall that, in particular in greece, the situation remains critical.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report as it sends a clear political message to the need to support greece and italy by speeding up, among other things, a fair system of relocating refugees. the report also expresses clear opposition to the eu-turkey agreement, which is not in line with international refugee and asylum law but is the culmination of the eu's policy of cynicism and analogy towards the victims of a war for which it bears many responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ the despite eu countries' commitments to relocate a total of 160,000 asylum seekers over two years, only a small proportion of people have so far been relocated from greece and italy. i voted in favour of the report, which calls on eu countries to make available at least one third of the relocation places already committed by 31 december 2016. the eu member states must honour their commitments and there must be a fair redistribution of the burden. the report also stresses that the commission's proposal that eu countries can count the number of syrian refugees they accept directly from turkey under the eu-turkey agreement on the already existing resettlement places from greece and italy is not correct. the commission has also proposed that the european union should provide a european union-wide network of contacts with the countries of the region, in order to facilitate the exchange of information and experience between the member states and the commission. there is a great need for immediate relocation of refugees from greece and italy to other eu member states in view of the urgent humanitarian situation in greece and the risk of deterioration in italy.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report as it sends a clear political message to the need to support greece and italy by speeding up, among other things, a fair system of relocating refugees. the report also expresses clear opposition to the eu-turkey agreement, which is not in line with international refugee and asylum law but is the culmination of the eu's policy of cynicism and analogy towards the victims of a war for which it bears many responsibilities.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and consider that the examination of the member states' national reform programmes contained in the joint employment report shows that member states must continue to make every effort in the priority areas: increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce that responds to labour market needs, promoting the quality of jobs and lifelong learning, improving the performance of education and training systems at all levels and increasing participation in higher education, promoting social inclusion and combating poverty.
in writing. ‒ the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is indicative of the eu's insistence on neoliberal austerity and memorandum policies and the lack of democracy in the union, since neither last year nor this year did the council take parliament's report on the employment guidelines into account. the deregulation of industrial relations, the downward pressure on wages and labour rights, the dismantling of the welfare state and social dumping are being imposed on the people to benefit multinationals and big capital. we therefore consider it appropriate to abstain from voting on the report.
in writing. ‒ we abstained from the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is indicative of the eu's insistence on neoliberal austerity and memorandum policies and the lack of democracy in the union, since neither last year nor this year did the council take parliament's report on the employment guidelines into account. the deregulation of industrial relations, the downward pressure on wages and labour rights, the dismantling of the welfare state and social dumping are being imposed on the people to benefit multinationals and big capital.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and underline that wildlife trafficking has become the fourth largest black market, after drug trafficking, human trafficking and arms trafficking.
in writing. we voted against the report which contains many positive points, particularly with regard to the regulation on wild animals which should provide incentives for rural populations to participate in nature conservation by linking their benefits to the state of biodiversity. in addition, the report highlights the need to increase funding for wildlife conservation and capacity building programmes.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that good postal services are a vital part of communications in the eu's internal market. from collection to transport, from sorting to the delivery of mail and parcels to homes and offices, postal service providers offer a wide range of services at affordable prices. the eu postal sector remains a fundamental factor in social, economic and territorial cohesion and in the development of the digital single market.
in writing. we voted against the report on the implementation of the postal services directive as it promoted the restriction of the member states' ability to decide how to manage their public postal services.
in writing. ‒ the there is no doubt that correct and efficient postal services are a vital and essential part of communications in the eu internal market. the eu postal sector is and remains a fundamental factor in social, economic and territorial cohesion. in a single market there should be affordable and reliable services, particularly postal services. for an additional reason, postal services must operate properly and efficiently since sectors such as e-commerce, publishing, insurance, banking and others are highly dependent on postal infrastructure. for all these reasons, i am voting in favour of the report on the implementation of the postal services directive.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and underline that small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and midcaps are an important part of the eu economy. access to finance for smes has therefore long been on the political agenda.
in writing. we voted against the report on access to finance for smes, and increasing diversity in sme finance in a capital markets union as our group's view is that the financial system and in particular the work of the banking union and the cmu creates new barriers for smes to access finance for their activities. in addition, the increased financial fragility of smes is due to the fall in their sales as a result of the austerity policies imposed across europe. access to finance is therefore not at the heart of the problem and the cmu proposal will not solve any of the smes' problems. on the contrary, it will shift the risk of investment from the financial system to smes, allowing speculative investors to take advantage of the dire situation of european smes.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and the rapporteur's position that in order to achieve a healthy environment for business development and stimulate job creation, national and european policies must as a priority address skills issues (shortages, mismatches, brain drain), regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, as well as the problem of undeclared work and the de facto privileged position of multinational companies.
in writing. we voted against the report because the proposed strategic framework for job creation in smes does not guarantee the creation of new decent and permanent jobs. in addition, there is no mention of collective labour rights of workers.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because we disagree with its general philosophy. the general framework proposed for job creation in smes does not guarantee the creation of new decent and permanent jobs. nor is there any mention of collective labour rights, i.e. social security, collective bargaining and collective agreements. we are not ignoring the rapporteur's good intentions and the improvements made to the text. the reference to ensuring the protection of workers in any increase in flexibility, and support for the development of cooperative enterprises are agreed. but real social and economic development requires public investment to support industrial sectors and contribute to decent jobs.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and underline that the need for increased participation in the labour market in the future, as well as for long-term income security, make it necessary to find better arrangements for reconciling work and family life, including caring for a family member.
in writing. ‒ the the principle of equal treatment is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. although all 28 member states have transposed the directive into national law, legislation alone is not enough to ensure full equality. it must be combined with the necessary policy action. i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the employment equality directive with the ultimate aim of creating a level playing field in employment equality. the need for increased participation in the labour market in the future, as well as for long-term income security, make it necessary to find better arrangements for reconciling work and family life. in addition, there is a need to strengthen dialogue between governments, civil society and the social partners on all causes of discrimination and to raise public awareness. the report also highlights the low number of complaints, which reflects only a low percentage of discrimination incidents actually occurring in the eu as a whole. efforts should therefore be stepped up to raise awareness, disseminate information, improve access to justice and to discrimination complaint mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and believe that the fund provides real support and solidarity to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in the shape of world trade.
the commission mr president, i believe that if we really believe that the european union should not be introverted but should reach out to help - with a social face, with a social character and with an imaginative development policy - other countries outside the european union, then we should support agreements such as the cotonou agreement, the agreement with the countries of the caribbean, africa and the pacific, where the european union really contributes, both economically and in other ways... (the president interrupted the speaker for lack of an english translation and the speaker then resumed) i was saying, mr president, that if we consider that the european union cannot be a closed club of countries concerned only with the development of the european union itself, but that, on the contrary, the european union has a responsibility and a role to play beyond its borders, then we must also consider that the agreement reached between the countries of the caribbean, the pacific and africa and the member states of the european union is the crowning achievement of a modern european union that responds to the calls of all humanity and is present wherever there is a problem. i believe that if one studies this agreement, in its sixteen years of existence, one will realize that, whatever problems there may be, whatever difficulties and obstacles there may be, it is a very useful agreement, useful because it really does something for these countries and contributes both to their sustainable development and to their development and integration into the world economy. however, i agree - and as shadow rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on budgets i supported this view with all my strength - that the timing of the revision of the multiannual financial framework in 2020 and the expiry of the agreement offers us an important opportunity to integrate the budget of the european development fund into the budget of the european union, so that there is more effective management with transparency and all the conditions required. i would like to stress one last point, mr president, that it is indeed very important that there be effective control and transparency over where the european union's money goes and that the principles of democracy, human rights and the rule of law should be applied in these countries.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, the eradication of hunger and malnutrition is a major commitment of the european union. our intention must be to achieve sustainable development within objective ii, but also the related objectives, which aim to eliminate both hunger and malnutrition by 2030. however, the current situation proves that our policies so far have been ineffective and wrong, and i disagree with the encouraging results and figures that have been reported. the new targets can be achieved mainly by increasing the productivity of small farms and holdings and by creating sustainable agricultural and food production systems capable of feeding a total population expected to reach 8.5 billion people. it is therefore of particular importance that coordinated action be taken between the global community and national and local authorities, non-governmental organisations and the private sector, as well as between donors, to address hunger and all forms of malnutrition through increased production and a more efficient process of developing the productive food chain. on this basis too, the european union should take into account the need for greater coherence and coordination between all the institutions and bodies of the european union and the member states. member states should, in line with their commitments, step up their efforts for global food security and give priority to sustainable agriculture and local food production, as well as support for smallholder farmers and women farmers as food producers. at the same time, the international community and the european union must work with all countries to support the design and implementation of a comprehensive framework of concrete, feasible and robust national and transnational food measures, based on the sustainable development goals, to reduce underdevelopment and malnutrition. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. finally, humanitarian aid must be targeted, not exploited by corrupt actors, avoided waste and complemented by commission strategies linking humanitarian and development aid. at the same time, the commission should increase investment in specific interventions relating to nutrition, especially in view of the current huge funding gap. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, commissioner, it is important to support timber producing countries and to mobilise resources to develop mechanisms to strengthen the union's action plan for the implementation of forestry legislation. but all our action must respect and promote the objectives we have set for the climate and the protection of the environment. it is necessary to take immediate measures to prevent and deter illegal logging, arbitrary deforestation and the deliberate destruction and burning of forests for the purpose of building up forest areas, which we are experiencing very strongly in southern europe, and to serve large private interests. it is also important to promote reforestation. the protection of the environment is a basic prerequisite for improving the quality of human life. we therefore have a duty to protect forests against all forms of illegal logging and destruction and to develop forestry legislation in the interests of society and people.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the trilateral meeting in new york between the leaders of the two communities in cyprus has just ended. the european union is not a party to the cyprus problem, but it is a party to the cyprus problem, and it is a party to the cyprus problem, and it is a party to the cyprus problem. we therefore call for the withdrawal of the turkish occupying forces from the region and for the abolition of the anachronistic system of 1960 guarantees and of any unilateral powers of intervention. my party rejects any nato solution to the security question. secondly, we call for the continuation of the republic of cyprus and its transformation into a bi-communal bi-zonal federation. we call for the unhindered application of basic freedoms and human rights for all cypriot citizens. we cannot accept permanent deviations from the acquis communautaire. we demand an end to settlement and respect for the four-to-one population ratio. we are calling for substantial territorial adjustments, such as the incorporation of, among others, famagusta and morpho under greek cypriot administration. we consider it necessary to reduce to a minimum the timetables for both the return of territories and the withdrawal of occupying troops and we call, finally, for a strong security council resolution and other relevant commitments by all concerned to ensure the implementation and faithful observance of the overall settlement. i would like to conclude, if i may, with a reference to şener elcil, who was awarded the european citizen's prize just the day before yesterday and who, despite the protection that this award should give him, is facing threats. i think parliament should keep its eyes open on this.
in writing. ‒ we support the agreement and underline europe's commitment to take a leading role in efforts to tackle climate change and to make progress towards a low-carbon economy.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the commission's draft proposal for the paris agreement because i believe that the eu must play a leading role in the fight against climate change and work towards a subsequent global treaty. i also believe that the decision to conclude the paris agreement will send a strong message and highlight the leadership of the eu and its member states in the international effort to tackle climate change. it will also make a decisive contribution to the rest of the world's efforts to tackle climate change.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the resolution by which the european parliament gives its consent to ratify the paris agreement to combat climate change. the entry into force of the agreement less than a year after it was signed is a huge achievement, given that it took eight years for the kyoto protocol to enter into force. the european union, which accounts for around 12% of global greenhouse gas emissions, is confirming its leading role in the fight against climate change. together we are now moving towards the eu's commitment to reduce emissions in the european union by at least 40% by 2030. thanks to eu ratification, the paris agreement will enter into force in time for the cop 22 climate change conference in marrakesh.
in writing. ‒ the the paris agreement has created an important framework for tackling climate change. that is why we voted in favour of the agreement, to send the message that the agreement must be implemented immediately by all. however, it is important to make progress on key elements of the paris agreement and set more ambitious targets that bind everyone. to succeed, we must stop unfair profit from determining the policies that are being promoted. the needs of society and people must be put at the centre, not the interests of multinationals and monopolies. it's the only way to protect the environment. the eu and rich countries in particular must persistently take the lead in setting new targets to combat energy poverty, end the wasteful use of natural resources, end deforestation, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and develop an integrated plan to support and promote renewable energy sources. if this is not done, then the eu will be responsible for the violation of the human right to a quality life.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and recommend the swift adoption of the commission proposal for a decision annexed to this report, in solidarity with the affected greek regions.
in writing. ‒ i support the decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide financial assistance in response to the disaster in greece on 17 november 2015. the disaster can also be described as 'regional' under the eia regulation, the cost of eligible emergency measures has been estimated at eur 52,374 million, of which more than eur 38 million relates to the transport sector and more than eur 7 million to the protection of cultural heritage. the european solidarity fund also seeks to enable the union to respond in a rapid, effective and flexible manner to emergency situations in order to express its solidarity with the population of areas affected by natural disasters, as in the case of greece with the earthquakes that struck the ionian islands region, and in particular the island of lefkada.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report which provides for the provision of financial assistance of eur 1 651 834 from the eu solidarity fund to repair the damage caused by the earthquakes that struck the region of the ionian islands, and in particular lefkada, the northern parts of ithaca, and kefalonia on 17 november 2015. the toll of the catastrophic earthquake included human losses, extensive damage to homes, infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural monuments, while some of the most important tourist beaches in lefkada were destroyed. the financial aid will help to restore the infrastructure, to reimburse the emergency measures taken and to cover the costs of certain emergency measures. the importance of the european union solidarity fund, which aims to enable the union to react in a rapid, effective and flexible manner to emergency situations in order to express its solidarity with the population of areas affected by natural disasters, is also recognised.
in writing. ‒ the the report proposes to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that struck the ionian islands in november 2015. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one.
in writing. ‒ we support the application because we believe it meets the conditions for a financial contribution from the egf.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the decision to mobilise the egf in favour of finland and in favour of the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at microsoft and at eight suppliers and producers in finland. on the basis of this request, personalised services will be provided to workers who have been made redundant. the measures to be taken include vocational guidance, vocational training, wage subsidies, and accommodation and relocation allowances in the event of redundancies and the setting up of new businesses in other areas. it should be noted that the above measures are, according to the commission, active labour market measures.
in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the pattern of world trade. the report gives the green light for the mobilisation of the egf in finland and concerns 2,161 redundancies in microsoft's business operating in the financial sector. the egf funding of eur 5.364.000 will contribute to the costs of a coordinated package of eligible personalised services, the provision of assistance to 1,441 beneficiaries following redundancies, with the aim of assisting the integration of the affected persons into the labour market. the redundancies were caused by major structural changes in the pattern of world trade due to globalisation. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the the european adaptation fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the pattern of world trade. on 29 july 2016, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of finland in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at microsoft. the personalised services to be provided to redundant workers under this application are divided into the following categories: vocational guidance and other support measures, employment and business services, vocational training, wage subsidy, grant for business creation and travel, accommodation and removal allowances. we have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the application and consider it to be eligible for a financial contribution from the egf.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the european adaptation fund support to sweden for the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by telefonaktiebolaget lm ericsson, because i considered that the country's application was eligible for a financial contribution from the european adaptation fund. the swedish authorities have also provided all the necessary assurances requested. with these funds, displaced workers will have access to personalised services such as (a) counselling and career planning based on thorough assessment and personalised planning, guidance and incentive counselling, (b) protected and supported employment and rehabilitation measures, (c) education and training and (d) job search allowance, so that, with this assistance, they can be reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of the request for waiver of the colleague's immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of lifting the immunity of my fellow mep, george grammatikaikis, in accordance with his wish, so that he can go to court and put an end to the case. i am certain of mr. gramatikakis' acquittal as his alleged 'trial' refers to a meeting of the senate of the university of crete, which was the last of his long tenure as dean of the foundation (1990-1996). the crime he's accused of was committed 20 years ago! more than two hundred of his colleagues were also prosecuted for this case, who were solemnly acquitted in 2004 and 2016 by the greek courts.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the request of the greek authorities to lift mr grammatikis' immunity, which he himself requested, in order to help the justice system to complete its work.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and consider the commission's proposal to be a positive step towards ensuring a minimum level of legal aid in all member states.
in writing. ‒ the i vote against the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on temporary legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of their liberty and on legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings because the right to a fair trial is included and recognised, inter alia, in article 47 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu and also in article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. moreover, the scope of the directive should include the right to both interim and ordinary legal aid. i also believe that it is essential that the accused should have legal certainty as regards the eligibility criteria.
in writing. ‒ the the proposed agreement will establish common minimum rules on legal assistance to suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings, as well as to persons subject to a european arrest warrant, with a view to enhancing mutual trust and therefore mutual recognition in criminal matters. the directive will complete the existing package of procedural rights, which have been and are essential components in creating an area of freedom, security and justice. the extension of the scope to cover all types of legal aid in criminal proceedings, and not just 'temporary' legal aid, is a victory. moreover, the right of persons subject to a european arrest warrant to have access to legal assistance from a lawyer in both the issuing and executing member states is undoubtedly of paramount importance. i have voted in favour of this report for all these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report on this directive because, in addition to the general assistance and legal aid provided to suspects, accused persons deprived of their liberty and wanted persons in the process of executing a european arrest warrant, certain criteria are proposed for the quality of the assistance to be provided. the establishment of common minimum standards to safeguard one of the most basic rights of suspects or accused persons will enhance mutual trust between judicial authorities and thus facilitate the application of the principle of mutual recognition.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and consider that the 'regulation against torture' (ec) no 1236/2005 is a unique instrument that contributes to the protection of human rights through controls of the items and activities that are being or could be used improperly for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
in writing. ‒ i reject the proposal for a regulation from the ep on the amendment of the regulation on trade in certain goods which can be used for capital punishment and other humiliating and inhuman treatment or punishment, because in this way and through its established policy, the eu can contribute to the abolition of the death penalty, the prevention of torture and at the same time help to achieve these objectives by combining a specific licensing scheme for trade in such goods. it is necessary to ensure controls on eu exports, including inventories of military equipment, dual-use items, firearms and instruments of torture. finally, i would stress the key role that national authorities should play in ensuring effective controls on these species and in establishing a system of regular reporting and review.
in writing. ‒ the the report prohibits the export of products which have no practical use other than for the execution or torture of human beings (e.g. electric chairs and automatic systems for intravenous injection of medicinal substances designed for the execution of human beings). it also introduces controls on the trade of products designed for other purposes but which could be used for torture or execution of human beings. as noted, it is important to properly combine eu legislative measures with administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of instruments of torture and to effectively control objects that may be used for murderous and inhumane purposes. the absence of multilateral export control systems in the field of torture instruments inevitably makes this task more difficult. the adoption of this regulation is another step in our efforts to abolish the death penalty and torture everywhere in the world. i have voted in favour of the report for these reasons.
in writing. ‒ the the torture regulation is a tool that contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling the items and activities that are being or could be used improperly for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. it is important to properly combine eu legislative measures with administrative, judicial and external measures to prevent and prohibit the production, trade and use of instruments of torture and to effectively control objects that may be used for murderous and inhumane purposes. the commission proposes to strengthen the controls on torture facilities by suggesting ways and the rapporteur in turn supports the approach of necessary and proportionate controls without unnecessary burden. for all these reasons, we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as there appears to be a clear operational need for europol to work with china.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the draft council implementing decision on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people's republic of china and europol, which agreement however excludes the exchange of personal data and does not apply to the above case. the exchange of information may include expertise, general situation reports, information relating to the investigation of crimes. finally, such a strategic cooperation agreement with china would help and strengthen the fight against organised crime and at the same time contribute to cooperation in the enforcement of international law.
in writing. ‒ the i support the report and stress that if we consider that the european union cannot be a closed club of countries concerned only with the development of the european union itself, but that, on the contrary, the european union has a responsibility and a role to play beyond its borders, then we must also consider that the agreement reached between the countries of the caribbean, the pacific and africa and the member states of the european union is the crowning achievement of a modern european union that responds to the calls of all humanity and is present wherever there is a problem. i believe that if one studies this agreement, in its sixteen years of existence, one will realize that, whatever problems there are, whatever difficulties and obstacles there may be, it is a very useful agreement which really does offer these countries and contributes both to their sustainable development and to their development and integration into the world economy.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution on the future of acp-eu relations after 2020 because it strengthens the links between the peoples and acp countries and the eu countries and between their parliaments. in order to improve and to make cooperation effective, a new structure should be adopted which will maintain the universal features of the acp-eu acquis such as the attachment to human rights, to sound democracy and to human rights. finally, i support this resolution and stress that issues such as the fight against poverty, the fight against inequalities and the promotion of sustainable development should be the primary objective of acp-eu cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the the overall framework for eu relations with africa is the cotonou agreement, which was established in 2000 with the aim of eradicating poverty through the full integration of the acp countries into the world economy. however, the political and economic landscape of the acp countries and the european union has changed considerably since the cotonou agreement was signed. in order to improve the effectiveness of cooperation and to adapt it to new challenges, a new structure should be adopted which preserves the elements of the acp-eu acquis, such as the emphasis on human rights, good governance and democracy, the objective of the rule of law and the exchange of best practices in a common framework. i voted in favour of the report calling for the 2030 agenda and the sustainable development goals to be at the heart of the new agreement, as well as the establishment of an acp-eu peer monitoring, accountability and evaluation mechanism to regularly monitor the implementation of the sdgs in the member states.
in writing. ‒ the the acp-eu joint assembly has set as its principle the equal and fair negotiation between the acp and the eu for the continuation of its relations. unfortunately, the two large groups in parliament have put forward the commercial and economic interests of the big companies. they have supported, among other things, free trade agreements which will subjugate the peoples of the african, caribbean and pacific countries, as indeed all free trade agreements. at the same time, the calls of the etuc/bpa for integrated and sustainable development policies with the strengthening of the labour and democratic rights of all citizens were not heeded. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the question is "blue card". madam president, there is no doubt that, for the seven years it has been in the memoranda, the greek people are really being tested and are paying the price for the wrong policies that have been implemented, particularly in recent years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field. there are no concrete measures and solutions which we can propose? i would point out that cyprus has managed to get out of the memorandum in three years, while the greek people are still being tested.
madam president, on a point of order, i have not raised a question about a blue card. i have been patient from the very beginning and have asked for catch-the-eye. what have i done wrong? you tell me.
madam president, to make a mistake is human. you made a mistake: you counted me as gue. i am not gue, i am s&d. it is ok, but let us turn now to our subject. i will speak using my mother tongue. (the president cut-off the speaker)
madam president, i in turn will congratulate mr moscovici on his efforts for greece, but i will speak as much as i can on the substance. today's discussion could have been a question: is the greek public debt sustainable? i would find it hard to believe that there is any economist who would say that the greek public debt is sustainable. if it is not sustainable, it does not mean that structural changes and all the rest are not needed, but without sustainable debt i think greece will not develop as quickly as we would like, because there are those who are simply playing games to oppress the greek people or to punish tsipras or anyone else. thank you, sir.
mr president, no matter how hard one tries to find a problem or a flaw in this very important proposal and in this important work being carried out by the commission and the european union, one will not succeed, because this measure is in fact a purely social measure, it is a measure that actually abolishes borders, it is a measure in favour of consumers, it is a measure that strengthens the social personality and the social sensitivity of the european union. i think that this is the first step in the telecommunications field, because there is a second very important step which is the reduction of internet charges and not only that. when the founder of facebook announces that he will personally cover areas that do not have internet access, then i think it is impossible that the european union cannot do the same. i do not think, commissioner, that the european union cannot pilot the free and open internet access programme in isolated island regions such as cyprus, malta and the canary islands, thus sending the message that it is a pioneer, not only in terms of fees, but also in the whole of the internet, which is very important.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the negotiations on the gatt agreement. the commission and the council are now trying to bring it back through the back door, through ceta. the us multinationals will be able to use the tools of ceta through canada to attack the labour, social and environmental standards of the states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. labour legislation, environmental protection standards, consumer safety and public health standards will be squeezed down drastically. democracy itself will be destroyed, as multinationals will be able to challenge sovereign states' decisions through isds by claiming damages whenever their profits are going to be negatively affected. we are therefore going to be led to the absolute domination of the market. we, as gue, stood against ttip and we will stand against ceta because we are consistently fighting for the strengthening of workers' rights and the welfare state and against the interests of multinationals.
s & d) and the mr president, since we are discussing refugees and migrants, i will raise a matter with the commission which concerns it and which is a huge outstanding issue with regard to turkey, since there is an expressed demand from erdoğan for the liberalization of visa procedures for turkish nationals. but this decision is 100% the european union's own, not erdoğan's. so we have 72 criteria. in a question i put to the commission and in the answer i received, it is clear that the commission is already making deductions in its assessment. while the 72 criteria are indivisible and relate to the whole of the european union, we are beginning to recognise 'partial fulfilment of criteria', 'manifest progress' and so on. i'll close with this: this morning, on my way here in the european parliament car, my driver, when he realised that i was from cyprus, asked me a question which i ask everyone: how is it possible that turkey has occupied one third of cyprus with turkish troops and has reached the point of pre-accession talks where it is today?
in writing. ‒ we support the report as many eu citizens are of peruvian origin. this will ensure the protection of children with links to the peruvian community from abduction. the accession of peru to the convention is welcome.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction because this convention is a vital instrument because it enables the states parties to work together to find a solution to the issue of international child abduction. it should be noted that the courts have jurisdiction but the law of the state where the child resides should apply. for the above reasons, and also because of the humanitarian nature of this convention, austria and romania should accept the accession of peru.
in writing. ‒ the the 1980 hague convention is a vital tool as it ensures the prompt return of children abducted by a parent to the same state of residence, as well as the protection of the rights of the parent to communicate with his or her child. as international parental child abduction is a global problem affecting thousands of children each year, peru's accession to the convention is a positive one. i voted in favour of the report because, as the rapporteur points out, many eu citizens are of peruvian origin, which means that, by acceding to the hague convention, the protection against abduction of children with links to the peruvian community will be ensured.
in writing. ‒ the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is a vital instrument and establishes a system that enables states parties to cooperate in resolving situations of international child abduction. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report because we consider that kazakhstan's accession to the convention is welcome. the commission, together with member states' experts in civil justice, has assessed the functioning of the justice system of kazakhstan and the readiness of the country to implement the convention and considers it desirable to bring the convention between the european union and kazakhstan into force.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction because this convention is a vital instrument because it enables the states parties to work together to find a solution to the issue of international child abduction. i believe that, following the accession of kazakhstan to the convention, it is necessary to adopt a council decision authorizing the member states to accept this accession, since the hague convention system is more effective with the accession of more countries.
in writing. ‒ the the problem of child abduction is becoming more and more serious these days. the problem of this social phenomenon is difficult to tackle within the framework of each legal system. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is therefore a vital instrument. the commission, together with member states' experts in civil justice, has assessed the functioning of the justice system of kazakhstan and the readiness of the country to implement the convention and considers it desirable to bring the convention between the european union and kazakhstan into force. i therefore supported the report as the hague convention system becomes more efficient with the accession of more countries.
in writing. ‒ the the 1980 hague convention on civil matters in the field of international child abduction is a vital instrument and establishes a system that enables states parties to cooperate in resolving situations of international child abduction. the convention system becomes more efficient with the accession of more countries. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and note that south korea's accession to the convention is welcome. the commission, together with member states' civil justice experts, has assessed the functioning of the justice system of south korea and the willingness of the country to implement the convention and considers it desirable to bring the convention between the european union and south korea into force.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the report on the proposal for a council decision on the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, because this convention is a vital instrument since it enables the states parties to work together to find a solution to international child abduction. i therefore believe that, following south korea's accession to the convention, it is necessary for the council to adopt a decision authorising the member states to accept the accession of south korea, as this will allow the convention between south korea and the eu to enter into force in its entirety. in addition, the presence of the korean community in europe is strong, which makes the above even more important.
in writing. ‒ the preventing child abduction is an essential part of the eu's policy to promote children's rights. the european union is therefore working internationally to improve the implementation of the 1980 convention and is encouraging third countries to accede to it. the commission, together with member states' civil justice experts, has assessed the functioning of the justice system of south korea and the willingness of the country to implement the convention and considers it desirable to bring the convention between the european union and south korea into force. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the accession of korea to the 1980 hague convention because the hague convention system thus becomes more effective with the accession of more countries. the korean community has a strong presence in europe, which makes the acceptance of its accession all the more important.
in writing. ‒ the the 1980 hague convention on civil matters in the field of international child abduction is a vital instrument and establishes a system that enables states parties to cooperate in resolving situations of international child abduction. the convention system becomes more efficient with the accession of more countries. that is why we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and insist on the need to take a holistic approach to the challenge of malnutrition because action is needed in a wide range of economic and social sectors.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution on the eu's next steps on food security issues in the world because, taking into account the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights, we conclude that the right to food is an inalienable right since it is part of the right to an adequate standard of living, taking into account the right to food. moreover, the human right to food can only be realised when poverty and inequality are drastically reduced and also when equality is ensured. this can be achieved by creating rights-based social safety nets and ensuring the full participation of vulnerable and weaker groups. i therefore support the report.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on achieving the objective of eradicating hunger and malnutrition by 2030, in particular by ensuring opportunities for increasing the productivity of small farms and by achieving sustainable and climate resilient agricultural and food systems. currently, 159 million children are sick and 50 million are affected because of the reckless waste of food. malnutrition has a huge impact on growth and health and reinforces the cycle of poverty. the level of investment remains insufficient. it is also important that the commission is called upon to set out a clear policy framework for increasing support to national social security networks, which have proven in several countries to be an important tool for increasing resilience and reducing malnutrition.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution addresses not only food security but also ensuring sustainable agriculture through improved governance and accountability. it also proposes systemic policies on food and nutrition, which take into account the gender dimension, sustainable agriculture, the use of and access to natural resources, public water, and public sanitation and hygiene. finally, the rights of vulnerable and marginalised groups are respected. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting in favour of the ep resolution on the european public prosecutor's office and eurojust because i believe it is very important for the eu and all its member states to detect and effectively combat fraud against the eu's financial interests so that the eu can protect the taxpayers of all the member states who contribute to the union's budget. in addition, eurojust has facilitated coordination and cooperation between national investigating and prosecuting authorities in cases involving most member states and has also contributed to the development of mutual trust and to bridging the gap between the various legal systems and traditions of the eu. it is also clear that eurojust has facilitated and improved crossborder criminal prosecution.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report on the european public prosecutor's office and the criminal justice cooperation agency because both the commission and the council are still in the process of internal consultations. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office is subject to serious legal uncertainties and ambiguities which have not yet been resolved. all the reports on this subject which have been produced to date have bypassed the necessary careful study of the impact of the creation of such a body on national criminal proceedings and the concerns of many national parliaments. there is also particular concern whether this proposed institution, in the form and with the powers envisaged, is the most appropriate option for dealing with the problem of fraud affecting the eu's financial interests, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. but we also disagree on the substance of the transfer of more and more powers and responsibilities to the eu, powers which are currently exclusively held by the member states.
in writing. ‒ we call on the commission to mobilise all available resources, in particular the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund, so that the workers made redundant at the caterpillar plant in gosselies and the alstom plant, as well as all subcontracted workers, can be reintegrated as quickly as possible into the labour market and given the appropriate support to acquire new skills.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the motion for a resolution on the need for a european industrial policy in the light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases because european industry has played an important role in the history of european integration and is a pillar of new values in europe. it should also be borne in mind that the european rail industry is the cornerstone and backbone of european industrialisation and at the same time employs 400,000 people across the eu. on the other hand, only through an ambitious innovation policy that promotes the production of innovative products will the eu be allowed to be self-sufficient in a competitive global environment. given that in the case of alstom and caterpillar the expertise of the workers' representatives has not been taken into account and that in many cases the closure of factories often entails irreversible losses in technologies, industrial know-how and the skills of industrial workers, i believe that the commission should put forward a proposal for a revision of the member states' legislation on collective redundancies.
in writing. ‒ the the joint resolution of parliament was not at all satisfactory. we on the left see the need for reindustrialisation but not in the light of supporting the multinationals at all costs. despite billions in profits, these two multinationals decided to close their factories, leaving thousands of workers on the street and affecting dozens of other businesses. the resolution condemns in the most mild terms this action by the multinationals. in our view, it should require public investment both in creating new industrial sectors and in safe and decent jobs, and in supporting workers. we cannot support a resolution which requires the state to be a crutch for profitable multinationals.
s & d) and the mr president, what is the human toll so far: more than 300,000 dead, 15,000 of them children, 11 million refugees and, as we speak, two million people without access to running water. also, the reality is that syria was destroyed by the united states of america, some european countries, the assad regime and turkey, which has invaded syria and is currently continuing its own operations, under the pretext of hitting isis, when in fact it is hunting the kurds. we must also admit that there has been no reaction from the european union and that the reaction came only after the russian strike in syria and after the terrorist attacks in europe. what is required at the moment is a ceasefire so that we can send humanitarian aid to those who are suffering.
the commission madam president, first of all i would really like to pay a fair tribute and all of us should pay this tribute to our dear colleague giovanni la via and to commissioner cañete for the extraordinary effort and hard work to get the european parliament and the european union to cancel the paris agreement. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy. it has once again shown that the european union remains a powerful and leading force that can turn the tide in favour of humanity, in favour of a more social europe, in favour of european citizens, in favour of future generations. it is for this reason that we say that this agreement is a milestone and that we must now implement it, and the act of implementing it will be the judge of the european commission and of us in the european parliament. i believe that in order for this agreement to be able to be implemented and to be effective, the two main pillars that we as the european parliament have identified must be given incentives: energy saving and renewable energy sources, which are the basic conditions for the european energy union, and because i heard earlier that we must give incentives to third countries in africa, i say in the mediterranean itself, since the mediterranean has the comparative advantage of being sunny. my own country, cyprus, has over 300 days of sunshine, and it can very well develop renewable energy sources if it really has the support of the european union programmes. we can do it ourselves and i see no reason why we should look elsewhere. the other important point i wanted to make is that there must be a mobilization of the citizens themselves, of civil society, for sustainable development, for sustainable development, but also the fight against energy poverty. by serving and implementing these goals, we are certainly also fighting energy poverty, they will certainly also benefit consumers, and finally, this effort cannot be funded from other sources except the basic principle of all of us that 'no polluters pay' and i don't think the financial transaction tax is related to funding any effort to prevent climate change.
in writing. ‒ we support the proposal as ifrs 9 'financial instruments' is one of the most important responses of the fvc to the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the resolution on international financial reporting standards, as ifrs 9 'financial instruments' is one of the most important international accounting standards board (iasb) responses to the financial crisis and implementation efforts are already underway. in addition, ifrs 9 provides an improved model over ias 39. that resolution makes a significant reference to the commission in order to ensure that ifrs 9 serves the long-term investment strategy of the eu and limits pro-cyclicality and incentives to take excessive risks. it is also important that the commission, in cooperation with the european supervisory authorities, the ecb, the european systemic risk board and efrag, monitors the implementation of ifrs 9 in the eu in order to prepare an ex post impact assessment, which is very important for the smooth implementation of ifrs 9.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution actually expresses parliament's support for the g20 decisions and stresses that the proposed countercyclical measures are in the right direction. some concerns are expressed about the complexity of the new standards, but there is a reference to an 'immediate response to the crisis'. accounting standards are thought to have played a role in the profitability of banks and investment groups before the crisis. however, not only does it not call for the immediate consolidation of banking standards or the regulation of the operations of investment groups, but it also fits into the logic of 'impact assessment'. it is a very general resolution on a very technocratic subject. the real cause of the crisis-banks/investment groups relationship, which is the absolute freedom given to these institutions to speculate, is not addressed. that is why we have chosen to abstain.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and call on all parties to the conflict to cease all attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, including water and electricity infrastructure, to take credible and immediate action to end hostilities, to lift all sieges and to allow rapid, safe and unhindered access for humanitarian organisations to all people in need.
in writing. ‒ the the suffering of indiscriminately innocent civilians in syria is an unacceptable violation of international humanitarian law. i am deeply concerned about the continuing indiscriminate bombing of civilians in aleppo and the disruption of humanitarian aid deliveries. i supported the resolution because it stresses the need for a cessation of hostilities as the last remaining hope to avoid a further violent escalation of the war. i would stress the particular responsibility of the issg co-chairs, the us and russia, and the other issg members. high representative/vice-president federica mogherini, the international community and the united nations must use all necessary means and diplomatic pressure to end the indiscriminate aerial bombardment of civilians. finally, as regards the ceasefire, it must be implemented, respected and extended in order to allow full access for humanitarian aid to the besieged areas.
in writing. ‒ we support the motion for a resolution and urge developed countries and the eu to drastically reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions, even beyond current commitments, to avoid, as far as possible, the large-scale deployment of negative emission technologies because these technologies have not yet been proven successful, socially acceptable, cost-effective or safe.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the resolution on the implementation of the paris agreement and the un conference on climate change because, firstly, climate change can act as a stimulus to competition for resources but it can also exacerbate economic hardship and political instability. i stress the very important role that developing countries can play in efforts to implement and achieve the paris agreement and for this reason the eu should support developing countries' efforts to transition to societies with low carbon emissions, which are more socially and environmentally sustainable. finally, i hope that the eu will focus on climate diplomacy to ensure the stability and practical implementation of the paris agreement.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution aims to define the european parliament's position in the run-up to the cop22 climate conference in marrakesh, morocco. the draft resolution touches on issues such as the urgent need to implement the paris agreement (cop21), the drastic reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the eu's renewable energy target for 2020. in parallel, further efforts are needed to ensure that climate finance is mobilised. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it also welcomed the commitment of all countries to limit the increase in global average temperature to well below 2°c and to continue efforts to limit the increase to 1.5°c. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ we support the report because the legislation seeks to ensure a high level of consumer protection and at the same time ensures the effective functioning of the internal market for all materials that come into contact with food.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on the application of the regulation on materials in contact with food, because when they come into contact with food, and depending on their composition and properties, different materials behave differently and can transfer their constituents to food. member states often adopt specific measures at national level, but these may differ from those of other member states, resulting in different standards for product safety. for these reasons, eu action is necessary to address both the lack of concrete measures and the gaps in risk assessment, compliance and control.
in writing. ‒ the food, before its final consumption, comes into contact with many materials and objects during the various stages of its production, processing, storage, preparation and disposal. these materials must be sufficiently inert so that their constituents do not adversely affect the health of consumers or the quality of food. as food is one of the most important routes of human exposure to chemicals, food contact materials are subject to legally binding rules at eu level. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the application of the regulation on materials in contact with foodstuffs because it seeks to ensure a high level of consumer protection while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market in relation to products in contact with foodstuffs.
in writing. ‒ the report provides for the examination by eu committees of food contact materials imported from third countries, although it does so without strong and clear language. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and agree with the rapporteur that the european parliament can and should play a more structured role both in examining how candidate countries and countries with which the european union has concluded association agreements comply with eu law and in providing appropriate support to these countries.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of the report. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. the report also concludes that the enforcement of union law is characterised by a lack of transparency.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because it contains correct assessments of the transposition and application of eu law. as it states, environment, health, transport, internal market and services remain the policy areas in which most infringement cases remained pending in 2014. given that parliament still has limited access to information on the eu pilot procedure as well as to pending cases, it is not easy to assess to what extent the reduction in formal infringement procedures actually reflects member states' compliance with union law rather than compromise solutions between the commission and member states that are in breach of union law. the report therefore shows that the enforcement of eu law is still characterised by a lack of transparency.
in writing. ‒ the the issue of genetically modified organisms (gmos) is of particular importance and has been of concern to the european union since the 1990s. we believe that the objective of the competent authorities of the member states of the european union should be to control and limit any adverse effects of gmos, while leaving room for research in the new scientific field of biotechnology or for use on the market if the products prove useful and harmless.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution on the draft commission implementing decision concerning the placing on the market for cultivation of seeds of genetically modified maize bt11 series because i believe that the draft commission implementing decision is not in accordance with union law in the sense that it is not compatible with the objectives of directive 2001/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council, which are, in accordance with the precautionary principle, the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states and the protection of human health and the environment when genetically modified organisms are deliberately released into the environment for purposes other than placing on the market within the community and when genetically modified organisms are placed on the market as or in products within the community.
in writing. ‒ the the issue of genetically modified organisms (gmos) is a particularly important one and has been of concern to the european union since the 1990s. we believe that the objective of the competent authorities of the member states of the european union should be to control and limit any adverse effects of gmos, while leaving room for research in the new scientific field of biotechnology or for use on the market if the products prove useful and harmless.
in writing. ‒ the the issue of genetically modified organisms (gmos) is a particularly important one and has been of concern to the european union since the 1990s. we believe that the objective of the competent authorities of the member states of the european union should be to control and limit any adverse effects of gmos, while at the same time leaving room for research action in the new scientific field of biotechnology or for use on the market if the products prove useful and harmless.
in writing. ‒ the the issue of genetically modified organisms (gmos) is a particularly important one and has been of concern to the european union since the 1990s. we believe that the objective of the competent authorities in the member states of the european union should be to control and limit any adverse effects of gmos, while leaving room for research in the new scientific field of biotechnology or for use on the market if the products prove useful and harmless.
in writing. ‒ the the issue of genetically modified organisms (gmos) is of particular importance and has been of concern to the european union since the 1990s. we believe that the objective of the competent authorities of the member states of the european union should be to control and limit any adverse effects of gmos, while leaving room for research in the new scientific field of biotechnology or for use on the market if the products prove useful and harmless.
the commission mr president, i must congratulate and commend the rapporteur of this truly comprehensive, effective and holistic report on energy, the dear colleague andrás gyürk, who has really touched not only on the question of natural gas but also on the wider issues of the european union's energy strategy and the subject of the energy union. i am adopting and supporting this report not only because it includes my own country, cyprus, in its energy plans, but also the wider mediterranean, which is a very important player today in order to be able to complete the issue of energy self-sufficiency, energy supply and energy support for the european union, but also because it proposes solutions with regard to the lng terminal, since a small country like cyprus cannot in fact invest and build such a large project on its own, and for this reason it is turning to the european investment fund, which is important to be used for these plans. i would like to say to the commissioner present that now is the time to make use of the european fund for strategic investments for the energy self-sufficiency of the european union. the eastern mediterranean, like other regions, is also moving in this direction. at the same time, i should like to welcome the report's reference to the fact that the european union can become a leader in renewable energy sources, that it can use 100% renewable energy, that it can combat energy poverty and that it can effectively guarantee this basic human right, namely that energy should be the property of every european citizen.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr andrás gyürk, on the work he has done. the lng strategy should contribute to reducing dependence on pipelines and diversifying sources and supply routes, primarily to combat energy poverty, but also to enhance energy security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used to the full. we therefore welcome the report's reference to the need to support the exploitation of deposits in the cypriot exclusive economic zone and the wider eastern mediterranean, as well as the establishment of an lng terminal in cyprus. it is necessary to hear this motion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is equally important to support energy island countries such as cyprus and malta to lift their energy isolation. unfortunately, however, the positive proposals in the report are being overridden by the measures being proposed to impose a common energy policy which would limit the sovereignty and flexibility of the states and make energy a means of serving the needs of the market through ttip-type agreements. for gue/ngl, the lng strategy must enhance national resilience, promote public infrastructure with environmental standards and ensure the right to equitable and cheap access to energy.
s & d) and the the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the future of the union. given the european union's energy needs, the desire to reduce dependence on one supplier and geographical diversification, and finally the serious security problems that exist, it is imperative to exploit both resources outside the european union, but especially - and this is mentioned in the report - domestic natural energy resources and, in particular, deposits located in the eastern mediterranean and within the cypriot exclusive economic zone. the creation of a natural gas liquefaction terminal in cyprus is also important. finally, cyprus offers the possibility of cooperation with israel, lebanon and egypt. the use of the so-called juncker plan can give priority to a small country like cyprus, which is also in economic crisis, in order to be able to exploit its natural resources. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and consider that, for the purposes of automated dna data search, denmark should have the right to receive and provide personal data.
in writing. ‒ the the council decision appears to demonstrate that denmark has a decent data security system and therefore authorises the exchange of personal data (in this case dna data) to and from denmark. our group generally takes a negative view of the prüm decision and its implementing decisions, as they are based on a unilateral repressive approach and the belief that collecting more and more data is good policing. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ the the council decision appears to demonstrate that denmark has a decent data security system and therefore authorises the exchange of personal data (in this case dna data) to and from denmark. our group has serious concerns about the prüm decision and its implementing decisions, as they are based on a unilateral repressive approach and the belief that collecting more and more data is good policing. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ we agree with the report, as for the purposes of automated searching of fingerprints, denmark is entitled to receive and supply personal data.
in writing. ‒ the the council decision appears to demonstrate that denmark has a decent data security system and therefore authorises the exchange of personal data (in this case fingerprint data) to and from denmark. our group generally takes a negative view of the prüm decision and its implementing decisions, as they are based on a unilateral repressive approach and the belief that collecting more and more data is good policing. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ the the council decision appears to demonstrate that denmark has a decent data security system and therefore authorises the exchange of personal data (in this case fingerprint data) to and from denmark. our group has serious concerns about the prüm decision and its implementing decisions, as they are based on a unilateral repressive approach and the belief that collecting more and more data is good policing. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we consider visa liberalisation to be extremely important, as it brings tangible benefits.
in writing. ‒ the china is among those countries whose nationals are required to have a visa when travelling in the schengen area. the same applies to eu citizens wishing to enter china. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens holding an eu diplomatic passport or eu transit authorisation and for chinese citizens when travelling to the territory of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic passports is therefore a positive step towards the introduction of full visa exemption for holders of common passports. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the eu-china agreement, which provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or laissez-passer of the european union and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period, as visa abolition will reduce both the waiting time in front of consulates and the costs associated with travel. the abolition of the death penalty will facilitate people-to-people contact, which is a necessary condition for the steady development of economic, cultural, scientific and other links which will intensify contacts between peoples. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the visa-free regime is applied in the member states. the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic passports is a step forward towards the establishment of a full visa waiver for holders of common passports.
in writing. ‒ the china is among those countries whose nationals are required to have a visa when travelling in the schengen area. the same applies to eu citizens wishing to enter china. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for eu citizens holding an eu diplomatic passport or eu transit authorisation and for chinese citizens when travelling to member states for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic passports is a positive step towards the establishment of the full exemption from the requirement of a mutual visa for holders of common passports. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ the the report substantially supports the council's legislative proposal which will allow cyprus to apply the maximum co-financing rate of 85% instead of 50% due to the fragile state of our economy. the commission is also proposing to increase interim payments by 10% in countries such as greece. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. ‒ the countries in budgetary difficulties have difficulty in allocating sufficient funds to co-finance regional policy projects. articles 24 and 120 (3) of the common provisions regulation aim to provide assistance to member states in budgetary difficulties and to those receiving financial assistance. the modification of the period of time during which a country receiving financial assistance will be eligible for the additional payments and the fact that a member state continues to be eligible until 30 june of the year following the calendar year in which it ceases to receive financial assistance through a macroeconomic adjustment programme are steps in the right direction. in cyprus, which would normally receive 50% of the co-financing for erdf and esf programmes, an 85% co-financing rate is granted because it is facing economic difficulties and reduced investment. the increased co-financing will have a positive impact on the cypriot economy, as it will reduce the amounts allocated to national co-financing and support fiscal consolidation and investment efforts. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the the report substantially supports the council's legislative proposal which will allow cyprus to apply the maximum co-financing rate of 85% instead of 50% due to the fragile situation in which the cypriot economy is found. the report also recommends an increase in interim payments by 10% in countries such as greece. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report on the request for the waiver of jean-marie le pen's immunity, as it is alleged that, in a video posted on 6 june 2014 on the internet, he publicly incited racial hatred.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of jean-marie le pen's request for the waiver of his immunity so that he could be tried by the french judiciary for statements which were considered to incite racial and racist hatred. as the committee on legal affairs, which drew up the report on the lifting of jean-marie le pen's immunity, rightly points out, meps enjoy the right to freedom of expression in principle, but this right does not allow them to make offensive, slanderous or defamatory statements, to incite intolerance or to make disparaging statements about the honour and reputation of a person or to make any other statement contrary to article 21 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report of the committee on legal affairs, which decides not to defend the privileges and immunities of jane collins.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report of the committee on legal affairs, which decides not to defend the privileges and immunities of mario borghezio.
in writing. ‒ the we believe that eurostat should have statistical data on barrier-free stations accessible to people with reduced mobility and disabilities, and on the use of cross-border railway infrastructure. as regards accidents, railway accident statistics should remain within the scope of the regulation, which should be extended to include accidents and incidents involving the transport of dangerous goods and accidents involving level crossings. we also believe that eurostat and the european union agency for railways should work closely together to improve rail accident statistics and, in particular, to ensure methodological consistency with regard to accident data on other means of transport.
in writing. ‒ i am voting in favour of the resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 91/2003 on rail transport statistics. accident statistics should remain within the scope of the regulation, which should be extended to include accidents and incidents involving the transport of dangerous goods and accidents involving level crossings. i would stress that it is important to have a clear picture of the development of ertms in the eu, as the eu has spent millions of euros to finance this type of infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's decision to extend the scope of rail transport statistics to include infrastructure data, in particular for the european railway traffic management system (ertms) development plan, and to have a clear picture of the development of ertms, as the eu has spent millions of euros to finance this type of infrastructure without any concrete result in terms of system functionality due to irregularities and delays in system development, and parliament's decision that eurostat should have statistical data on barrier-free stations accessible to persons with reduced mobility and persons with disabilities, and on the use of railway infrastructure, in order to better analyse and use all the data in order to achieve a better use of all the elements. the strengthening of cooperation between eurostat, the commission and the european union agency for railways (era) is an important achievement to ensure that european citizens and other stakeholders have easy access to data relevant to eu policies. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the we believe that a successful policy to strengthen the role of inland navigation within the transport sector should be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. the extension of the scope of the existing regulation would put inland waterway transport on an equal footing with the maritime, air and road transport sectors, for which statistics are collected on both goods and passengers.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the resolution on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 on statistics relating to the carriage of goods by inland waterway as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission to adopt certain measures, because i believe that a successful policy to strengthen the role of inland waterway transport within the transport sector should be based on reliable statistics covering both freight and passenger transport. it should be noted that the extension of the scope of the existing regulation would put inland waterway transport on an equal footing with the maritime, air and road transport sectors, for which statistics are collected on both goods and passengers.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that member states are committed to working towards interaction and to making customs administrations function effectively as if they were a single administration, ensuring checks with equal effects and supporting business activity, but also to protecting the union's financial interests. however, it is clear that without an integrated approach in implementation, it is not possible for the customs administrations of the member states to act as one entity.
in writing. ‒ we ignore the report as it is clear that, especially after the recent terrorist attacks, the union institutions have been forced to review their security needs and it is considered that additional resources are needed as early as 2016.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report and welcome the opening of relations with iran. at the same time, we stress that the development of eu-iran relations must be in line with the implementation of the nuclear agreement (jcpoa), and we recall that, according to the provisions of the agreement, non-implementation by iran may lead to the re-imposition of sanctions.
in writing. ‒ the the report concerns the eu's strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal. the agreement is a positive development, which we welcome. we are in favour of a closer relationship between the eu and iran, but we must not ignore the human rights situation in the country, the use of the death penalty, the violation of freedom of expression and political persecution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we abstained on this report because in many respects it seeks to serve precisely those interests and not a relationship which will be beneficial to the people of iran.
in writing. ‒ the the report calls for efforts to reduce tensions between tehran and riyadh and for the abolition of the death penalty. many believed that the country was developing a nuclear program, something that iran itself denies. there were also hostile statements against israel and other countries, and the state of human rights and democracy was tragic. not everything has improved. however, iran is on the right track. people with reformist ideas are starting to be elected. the nuclear agreement was reached, which is a major victory for european diplomacy, but also an opportunity for iran to rejoin the international community, showing respect for international law. there may be gains for human rights as well. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we are clearly against the death penalty and only ending executions for drug-related offences can reduce the number of executions by up to 80%.
in writing. ‒ the the report concerns the eu's strategy towards iran after the nuclear deal. the agreement is a positive development, which we welcome. we are in favour of a closer relationship between the eu and iran, but we must not ignore the human rights situation in the country, the use of the death penalty, the violation of freedom of expression and political persecution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we abstained on this report because in many respects it seeks to serve precisely those interests and not a relationship which will be beneficial to the people of iran.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report and stress that organised crime is a global threat and as such requires a joint and coordinated response by the eu and its member states.
in writing. ‒ the this report is the necessary follow-up to the resolution adopted in october 2013 on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. it contains both positive and negative elements. some of the good recommendations included in the report are the fact that it asks the eu to become a member of greco and the commission to publish its report on the fight against corruption and to propose appropriate legislation. it points to the need for legislation that will strengthen the rights of suspects and guarantees of a fair trial, and calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal for the protection of witnesses and whistleblowers before the end of 2017. however, three key issues raised in the report tend to be of concern. firstly, the permanent loss of the right to be elected as a member of the european parliament after one conviction for a criminal offence; secondly, references to the need to place greater emphasis on membership of a criminal organisation than on crime; and thirdly, references to the european public prosecutor's office. for these reasons, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the organised crime is a global threat and requires a joint and coordinated response by the eu and its member states. moreover, organised crime, corruption and money laundering seriously threaten both the eu economy, significantly reducing tax revenues for member states and the eu as a whole, and democratic control of eu-funded public works. i voted in favour of the report which focuses on specific areas where priority action is needed. for example, measures are required to ensure the correct transposition of existing rules, to monitor their application and to assess their effectiveness. the report also calls for the creation of a specialised europol unit to combat organised crime and corruption, a stricter legislative framework and more effective judicial and police cooperation at eu level. the importance of preventing the penetration of organised crime and corruption into the legal economy and the role of the european public prosecutor's office in fighting corruption in the eu are also underlined. finally, confiscating the assets of criminal groups in the eu and facilitating their reuse for social purposes would act as a deterrent for criminals.
in writing. ‒ the the report contains both positive and negative elements. some of the good recommendations included in the report are that the eu should become a member of greco and that the commission should publish its report on the fight against corruption and propose appropriate legislation. it also states the need for legislation that will strengthen the rights of suspects as well as guarantees for a fair trial, and requires the commission to submit a legislative proposal for the protection of witnesses and whistleblowers before the end of 2017. however, two key issues raised in the report are of particular concern. firstly, references to the need to place more emphasis on participation in a criminal organisation than on the crime itself, and also references to the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office, which would be the central element in the fight against corruption, which implies the transfer of more and more powers and responsibilities that member states currently have to the eu. for these reasons, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ increased information sharing and law enforcement cooperation, better protection of whistle-blowers, greater transparency and traceability of eu funds, links between organised crime and terrorism as well as the need for specific measures to combat trafficking of human beings are important measures in order to address the current situation regarding the fight against crime and are necessary in combatting new forms of crimes in the european union
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the the report contains many important elements and in many respects criticises existing eu policies. the report stresses that migration is a global and multi-dimensional phenomenon and that human rights are universal and non-discriminatory. it presents the overall picture of migration today, with some 244 million people considered international migrants. it also gives the dimension for the domestic immigrants. importantly, the report also addresses the integration of migrants into local societies as well as reintegration programmes in their countries of origin. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on human rights and migration in third countries and express my solidarity with people forced to flee their country, including because of conflict, persecution, human rights violations and poverty, and stress that the eu and its member states must set an example in promoting and protecting the human rights of migrants, especially within their borders, in order to ensure their credibility in the debate on migration and human rights in third countries.
in writing. ‒ the prolonged instability and conflict in some areas are responsible for a humanitarian crisis affecting more than 65 million refugees and displaced persons, according to the united nations high commissioner for refugees. the report calls on all governments to tackle the lack of human rights protection faced by migrants and to abolish the punitive legal frameworks that criminalise migration. it also calls on states to ratify all international human rights treaties and conventions and to implement standards relating to the rights of migrants which are found in a number of legal instruments. for all these reasons i voted in favour of the report, which also emphasizes ways of improving the quality of life of migrants, as well as their economic and cultural independence, through access to medical care, employment and training.
in writing. ‒ the the report contains many important elements and makes a valid criticism of the policies promoted by the eu. there could certainly be issues on which it could be more forceful, for example, the negative role played by the us and some member states in bringing about the current refugee crisis. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. however, we voted against the report because of the correct criticism it makes on a number of points and because of the positive measures it promotes in dealing with the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ the international community is currently faced with one of its biggest challenges with regards to the migration crisis. people are forced to flee their homes on account of conflicts, persecutions, human rights’ violations and extreme poverty. the eu and its member states should set the example in promoting full respect of human rights and human dignity and should be at the forefront in protecting those more vulnerable. women and children migrants are subjected to extreme violence and discrimination and to that end a gender sensitive migration policy is needed. economic, social and cultural rights should be enjoyed by everybody, regardless of migration status whereas access to employment and trainings are important for the inclusion and empowerment of migrant women.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and reiterate the urgent need for sustained, effective and coherent action at all levels, including at national, european and international level, to effectively address corporate human rights violations.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries because we believe it is a first step in the right direction. it contains important parameters which both the commission and the member states should follow. in addition, the report highlights the obligations of companies operating abroad to respect human rights in all their activities. despite our positive attitude, we object to the fact that the report lacks any criticism of the eu's trade agreements themselves, which in many cases are inherently in breach of basic human rights.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries and confirm the urgent need for continuous, effective and coherent action at all levels, including at national, european and international level, to effectively address corporate human rights violations. furthermore, i call on companies, european or non-european, to apply human rights due diligence and to incorporate relevant findings into their internal policies and procedures, with the appropriate allocation of resources and delegation of powers with due implementation.
in writing. ‒ the companies are among the most important agents of economic globalisation, financial services and international trade. they must therefore respect all applicable and valid legislation and all applicable and valid treaties and respect human rights, taking into account that trade and human rights are mutually reinforcing. given that the business community is obliged to respect human rights, it may also have an important role to play in providing positive incentives to promote human rights, democracy, environmental standards and corporate responsibility. businesses are called upon to embrace, support and implement, within their sphere of influence, a set of fundamental values relating to human rights, labour standards, the environment, the fight against corruption, and to commit themselves to respecting these values.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report on corporate responsibility for serious human rights violations in third countries because we believe it is a first step in the right direction. the report contains important positive elements which should be followed by both the commission and the member states. in addition, the report highlights the obligations of companies operating abroad to respect human rights in all their activities. however, despite our positive attitude, we object to the fact that the report lacks any criticism of the eu's trade agreements themselves, which in many cases are inherently in breach of basic human rights.
in writing. ‒ respect of human rights is a core value of the european union and to that end corporations have an increasing role in ensuring respect for human rights, abiding by international norms and rules applicable for everybody. trade agreements can contribute to reinforcing the global rules-based trading system as well as human rights provisions. in this regard corporate social responsibility is highly important whereas worldwide implementation of the united nation guiding principles (ungps) can be an effective tool.
in writing. ‒ i am adopting and supporting this report not only because it includes my own country, cyprus, in its energy plans, but also the wider mediterranean, which is a very important factor today in order to be able to complete the issue of energy self-sufficiency, energy supply and energy support for the european union, but also because it proposes solutions regarding the lng terminal, since a small country like cyprus cannot invest and build such a large project by itself and, therefore, it is turning to the european regional investment fund, which is important to be used for these plans.
in writing. ‒ the the report includes positive references. the committee stressed the need to support both the exploitation of deposits in the cypriot eez and the establishment of a liquefaction terminal in cyprus. the need to ensure the right of access to affordable energy and to combat energy poverty is also underlined. however, negative reports are also included. while today the formulation of energy policy is the responsibility of the member states, the aim is to have a common energy policy and to speak with one voice, which will of course serve specific interests. the proposal for institutional convergence and the synergy of the union's external policy with the common energy policy, which is being imposed on the member states, is also problematic. the aim is to make energy a tool of foreign policy rather than part of a development policy to improve the quality of life. we do not want energy to be used to meet market needs through ttip-type agreements, as proposed in the report, nor to be used to strengthen the eu's ruling circles. we are fighting to ensure that energy is a public good, to which we all have equal and cheap access. we call for increased state control, public infrastructure and international cooperation on the basis of mutual benefit, equality and solidarity. for these reasons, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the natural gas is a flexible alternative to renewables in electricity generation and the eu should actively pursue the development of its domestic conventional gas resources, such as those discovered in cyprus. it is important to put forward a comprehensive proposal for the exploitation of indigenous energy sources, such as, for example, the gas deposits in the cypriot eez, and to support the establishment of a gas liquefaction terminal in cyprus, so as to exploit the deposits in the wider area. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. we also call for priority to be given to gas production in the mediterranean, black sea and caspian regions and to the interconnection of the peripheral countries of central and south-eastern europe. finally, the use of small-scale lng technology in certain sectors, such as long-distance transport or high-efficiency industrial applications, could contribute to climate policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ the the report includes positive references. the committee stressed the need to support the exploitation of deposits in the cypriot eez and the establishment of a liquefaction terminal in cyprus. the need to ensure the right of access to affordable energy and to combat energy poverty is also underlined. however, negative reports are also included. while today the formulation of energy policy is the responsibility of the member states, the aim is to have a common energy policy and to speak with one voice, which will of course serve specific interests. the proposal for institutional convergence and the synergy of the union's external policy with the common energy policy, which is being imposed on the member states, is also problematic. the aim is to make energy a tool of foreign policy rather than part of a development policy to improve the quality of life. we do not want energy to be used to meet market needs through ttip-type agreements, as proposed in the report, nor to be used to strengthen the eu's ruling circles. we are fighting to ensure that energy is a public good, to which we all have equal and cheap access. we call for increased state control, public infrastructure and international cooperation on the basis of mutual benefit, equality and solidarity. for these reasons, we abstained.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress the importance of ensuring effective control of fishing activities to ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine resources and to maintain a level playing field between eu fleets.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on uniform controls on fisheries in europe, which will allow common strategies to be identified, efficiency to be optimised and the most dangerous types of fisheries, vessels or practices to be better targeted. it is therefore necessary to collect compatible data from the states and to ensure that they are transmitted to land.
in writing. ‒ the large differences have been identified between national methods of control, sanctions and use of technologies. however, european fisheries rules must be applied uniformly in all member states so that all european fishermen are treated fairly. i voted in favour of the report, which raises the question of the uniform application of the regulations and, consequently, their effectiveness. inspection procedures, e.g. for net and catch sizes, should be standardised at eu level, as should the penalties for such infringements. the report stresses that european countries do not have the same training standards and calls for a single basic european training programme for fisheries inspectors to be implemented by the european fisheries control agency and training institutions in the member states. the ultimate objective is to improve the harmonisation of control of the common fisheries policy, which nevertheless remains one of the most integrated policies in europe.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report and underline that economic activities in europe and the quality of life of our citizens depend to a large extent on high-quality transport links. transport networks well connected to serve passenger and freight traffic at local, regional, national and cross-border level and easy access to them are a driving force for strengthening economic, social and geographical cohesion within and between member states in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the economic activities in europe and the quality of life of our citizens depend to a large extent on high-quality transport links. transport networks well connected to serve passenger and freight traffic at local, regional, national and cross-border level and easy access to them are a driving force for strengthening economic, social and geographical cohesion within and between member states in the eu. despite this progress, serious gaps in the accessibility and connectivity of transport infrastructure across the central and eastern eu remain. these gaps should be closed in order to maintain economic growth and employment opportunities for citizens and businesses to the greatest extent possible. the (eastern) border regions are in particular urgent need of such intervention, otherwise they will continue to lose their populations. in addition, the maintenance of sustainable transport links should be seen as an increasingly important factor in strengthening the stability and security of the eu's borders in eastern europe and the western balkans. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and underline that the european union has integrated democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights into its basic principles and objectives set out in the first articles of the treaties, as well as in the eu accession criteria.
in writing. ‒ the the report provides for the establishment of an eu mechanism to monitor member states in relation to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. although the mechanism is primarily aimed at preventing violations and non-compliance with the principles of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, it explicitly provides that the means will be provided to impose corrective measures and sanctions against member states. the report's main weakness is that the supervision of the action of the eu institutions is neither sufficiently rigorous nor clearly defined, in relation to the corresponding structure-procedure proposed for the member states. in addition to the three institutions, the other eu institutions and bodies escape supervision and control. there is no provision for the court of justice of the eu to intervene in decisions taken on the basis of article 7 teu, and there are no clear references to social rights as an integral part of fundamental rights. the whole question of creating such a mechanism is approached through the more general position on the issue of giving further powers to the eu and reducing the sovereignty of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against this resolution because it is imperative to establish a framework that will give the eu the opportunity to address violations and threats against democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. in addition, additional non-legislative measures should be taken to ensure an integrated approach to respecting the principles on which the eu is based.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report which proposes the creation of a european binding mechanism which would provide for the annual reporting on the state of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in all eu member states. the mechanism will ensure that all eu member states respect the values enshrined in the european treaties and will set clear, documented and non-political criteria for assessing countries' track records in the areas of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. the mechanism aims to integrate existing tools into a single tool and ensure their effective use. it also wants to bridge the gap between the monitoring of the respect for these values by the candidate countries on the one hand and the lack of effective means of monitoring the respect for the same values by those who are already eu member states on the other. we don't want to be left with a theory. the recent events in hungary and poland have shown that the eu must have effective tools at its disposal to counter threats to the eu's fundamental values, threats that undermine democracy in our countries.
in writing. ‒ the the report provides for the establishment of an eu mechanism to monitor member states in relation to democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. although the mechanism is primarily aimed at preventing infringements, it explicitly provides that the means will be provided to impose corrective measures and sanctions against member states. a key weakness of the report is that the supervision of the action of the eu institutions is neither sufficiently rigorous nor clearly defined, even in relation to the corresponding structure-procedure proposed for the member states. nor is there any provision for the court of justice of the eu to intervene in decisions taken on the basis of article 7 teu. nor are there clear references to social rights as an integral part of fundamental rights, recognised by international and european conventions and which are usually absent from the approach of the eu institutions to fundamental rights. finally, the whole issue of creating an eu mechanism for state supervision is part of the broader effort to give further powers to the eu and to reduce the sovereignty of the member states. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training. we therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission should set up a binding eu mechanism to monitor and report annually on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights in eu member states; a mechanism that should include objective benchmarks and lay down a gradual approach to remedying breaches. our core values are currently not protected by instruments that are strong enough to make sure that these values are upheld throughout the entire european union. this new eu mechanism should ensure that all eu member states respect the values enshrined in the eu treaties and set clear, evidence-based and non-political criteria for assessing their records on democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights in a systematic way and on an equal footing
the commission the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use and the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a very good one. we all want, and we have demonstrated this in the european parliament, a budget that responds to the new jobs, to the young people, to those actions which are related to research, to innovation, which really take europe forward. we want a budget that responds to a more social and more human europe. we also want, madam vice-president, a real campaign and a strong effort to abolish bureaucracy. the bureaucracy is currently affecting the budget of the european union, but it is particularly affecting citizens, small and mediumsized enterprises and the system itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union, which many blame from morning to night, is the one that implemented the revolutionary measure of the youth card for interail. and i think that he can go one step further and implement the free wi-fi card, which will allow young people to enjoy that right as well. i would like to stress that for small and isolated countries and isolated regions which are disadvantaged and disadvantaged in relation to all other countries, such as my country cyprus, there must be special provision, special support and special aid because in fact both their businesses and people, but also the countries themselves are disadvantaged in relation to others which are located in more central locations. i support this budgetary effort because it responds to the hopes and dreams, especially of young people, because there has been an increase in youth employment, youth activities, erasmus+, the world and all that really drives a budget for growth and employment, a budget for a social and human europe.
s & d) and the the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we must reiterate some points: what is the purpose of being here, and especially in the eurozone? to achieve economic convergence of economies and to involve member states in the design of structural reforms. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this brings me to my next point, which concerns the commission in particular: we're talking about responsibility and anomalies. since the commission regards member states' deficits as an anomaly, it should, by analogy, regard member states' surpluses as an anomaly. the commission has already made a number of proposals. access to the structural funds cannot be a punishment, since the principles governing them are the principle of solidarity and the objective of social cohesion.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we must make it clear that we are all against tax evasion and tax avoidance. none of us wants to defend all those tax evaders. but will the european union cease to be a financial centre? will we eliminate countries which provide legal financial services and compete with countries outside the european union? how can we control the system of rules and laws outside the european union and what will be the fate of small countries, like my own country and others, that have invested in financial services through legal means and legal means? and if you do away with the ability to set tax rates, which is perfectly legal, how can you even compete with great britain or other countries outside the european union? we are not interested in the european union remaining competitive in financial matters?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we must finally make a distinction: cyprus and malta fully and completely apply all tax rules and transparency rules to a much higher degree than other countries of the european union. they specialized in financial services. everything is done in a legal way. we are not going to go into the details of the situation, but we are going to look at the situation in the member states and the commission, and we are going to look at the situation in the member states and the commission. we are against tax evasion and tax avoidance. one thing led to another. and i think we have to be very careful, because in the end we will destroy both these countries and the european union itself, which will no longer be a competitive financial partner.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we, the group of the european united left, are in principle and in our convictions in favour of peace and against all war. the attacks and bombardments by the syrian regime and russia in eastern aleppo are rightly condemned. but there are no good and bad bombs. the bombs dropped by jihadists and rebels in western aleppo, which have damaged and even closed humanitarian corridors, are equally barbaric and destructive. the same barbarity is being shown by the american bombs that are killing civilians in syria and iraq. so stop turning a blind eye when your allies are waging wars. how long will you keep silent when the saudis are killing innocent children and civilians in yemen? we do not forget that the same tolerance and guilt you showed towards israeli bombings that wiped out families, destroyed hospitals in gaza, or when the us and nato promote by force of arms the falsification of borders in the middle east. unfortunately, with the responsibility of the european council, the european union continues to act hypocritically by implementing the unacceptable agreement it made with turkey, an agreement which violates international law and sets the conditions for the trade in refugees. instead of criticising the turkish government, which is sliding ever further into authoritarianism, for its daily violation of human rights and freedoms, for its invasion of syria, for its attempted genocide of the kurds, for its silencing of journalists and for the war it is waging against every minority, the council and the commission are rewarding it. it has recognized it as a safe country and has promised it rewards for keeping refugees away from its borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is unacceptable for the union to apply double standards. it is the result of these policies that has led to the worsening of the refugee crisis that we are experiencing today. unfortunately, the commission and the european council are insisting on increasing the number of border guards, on strengthening frontex, on building new border fences, towards a fortress europe. it is your actions that have closed the balkan corridor, but all you have achieved is to drown the refugees on the libyan coast and off lampedusa and not in the aegean. these policies are not a response to the humanitarian crisis. the only thing they do is to reinforce xenophobia and racism. what is needed is to develop a refugee policy based on solidarity and humanity, to create legal and safe pathways for refugees and migrants, and a permanent, binding and fair system of resettlement for refugees. it is equally important to put an end to wars and foreign interventions in the wider middle east and to give real support to african states. finally, as regards ceta, the people said 'no' and by their struggles they marginalized the ttip agreement. what has been confirmed in the last few days is that the council and the commission want to bring back ttip through the back door via ceta. we, as gue/ngl, welcome the courageous stance of the regional government and the walloon parliament, who have said 'no' to the blackmailing ultimatums to sign ceta. they have saved the dignity of europe and thus expressed the real will of millions of citizens in the union. (the president accepted to answer a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure). )
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. i think i was clear - i don't know if you heard the whole speech - i referred specifically to the american bombing. for us, there are no good and bad bombs. all the bombing is killing civilians, killing children. and we should not condemn unilaterally, only the bombings in eastern aleppo. we must condemn both the actions of the jihadists and the rebels, who are allies of the union, and the bombings by the united states.
s & d) and the i would like to make one point, madam president, and that is to address the commission. the evaluation report of the 72 criteria for granting visa liberalisation to turkey has been approved by the commission and, on the basis of it, only seven of the 72 criteria remain to be fulfilled. i would therefore ask the commission: the criteria that have been met include serious matters, such as turkey's obligations towards the european union, which also concern the republic of cyprus, but which mr erdogan refuses to implement. i shall mention only two in particular: how does turkey respect and cooperate in the management of the borders with the member states of the european union, if it claims the seas of the republic of cyprus? how can its judicial authorities cooperate when it does not even recognise the existence of the republic of cyprus? i just asked you a question. in conclusion, i would like to ask the commission: have you read and approved this report? such a simple question.
in writing. ‒ the we support the report and we stress that we want a budget that responds to the new jobs, to the young people, to those actions that are related to research, to innovation, that really take europe forward. we want a budget that responds to a more social and more human europe. we also want to see a real campaign and a strong effort to abolish bureaucracy. the bureaucracy is currently affecting the budget of the european union, but it is particularly affecting citizens, small and mediumsized enterprises and the system itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also support the budget report because it responds to the hopes and dreams, especially of young people, because there has been an increase in youth employment, youth activities, erasmus+, and all those things that really give impetus to a budget for growth and employment, a budget for social and human europe.
in writing. ‒ the the rejection of the budget remains for us a political act against the budgetary philosophy and austerity. despite all the positive elements, the increases being made are again moving in the direction of boosting competitiveness and deepening militarization. the argument that we should support the budget because we support parliament is not acceptable to us, since it is not opposed to austerity either. the funds it is increasing do not change the philosophy of the austerity policy and the memoranda.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the eu for 2017 in view of the opening of negotiations with the council for its final vote. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu needs a comprehensive revision of the multiannual financial framework (mff) and a more ambitious european budget to deal with the many new crises. some of the additional funds will come from new appropriations created during the mid-term review of the eu mff. however, we do not agree with the council's proposal for cuts in the draft european budget for 2017. we are asking for an additional €1.5 billion in commitment appropriations for the youth employment initiative to help young people looking for a job. we call for an increase in the appropriations for the connecting europe facility, which funds infrastructure projects, and for the horizon 2020 programme, which supports research projects. we also call for more funds to support farmers and for increased expenditure on culture.
in writing. ‒ the the rejection of the budget remains for us a political act against the budgetary philosophy and austerity. despite all the positive elements, the increases being made are again moving in the direction of boosting competitiveness and deepening militarization. the argument that we should support the budget because we support the institution does not agree with us, since the institution is not opposed to austerity either. the funds he is increasing do not change the philosophy of austerity.
in writing. ‒ the we support the report and we stress that we want a budget that responds to the new jobs, to the young people, to those actions that are related to research, to innovation, that really take europe forward. we want a budget that responds to a more social and more human europe. we also want to see a real campaign and a strong effort to abolish bureaucracy. the bureaucracy is currently affecting the budget of the european union, but it is particularly affecting citizens, small and mediumsized enterprises and the system itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also support the budget report because it responds to the hopes and dreams, especially of young people, because there has been an increase in youth employment, youth activities, erasmus+, and all those things that really give impetus to a budget for growth and employment, a budget for social and human europe.
in writing. ‒ we support the mid-term review of the mff and believe that its revision provides a unique opportunity to address the fiscal difficulties currently undermining the credibility of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the we disagreed with the logic of austerity in the multiannual financial framework (mff). however, in a revision of it we could agree to increase funds for e.g. erasmus+ and cosme, even though we know that these programmes are not enough to change the eu's philosophy on public investment and voluntary (as opposed to indirectly compulsory) migration. we voted against the mid-term review of the mff, to be specific when we have clear indications for the revised mff.
in writing. ‒ the the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 is not sufficient to enable the eu to address the numerous new crises and priorities that have emerged in recent years. if we are to be serious about responding to critical issues such as the migration and refugee crisis, terrorism and internal security, the crisis in agriculture or the prolonged high levels of unemployment, particularly among young people, an ambitious revision of the mff is necessary. there is disappointment that the european commission does not propose any upward revision of the current mff ceilings in its new proposal. however, i supported the resolution as it took account of the calls made by the ep for greater flexibility and for the creation of a crisis reserve which should be set up within the framework laid down in the european budget in order to avoid ad hoc solutions such as the creation of emergency funds.
in writing. ‒ the we disagreed with the logic of austerity in the multiannual financial framework (mff). however, in a revision of it we could agree to increase funds for e.g. erasmus+ and cosme, even though we know that these programmes are not enough to change the eu's philosophy on public investment and voluntary (as opposed to indirectly compulsory) migration. we voted against the mid-term review of the mff, to be specific when we have clear indications for the revised mff.
in writing. ‒ we support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund and welcome estonia's decision to combine two economic sectors in one regional application, as the redundancies occurred in the same region, as this will reduce the administrative burden and make it possible to organise joint measures for redundant workers in the two sectors.
in writing. ‒ we always overlook the mobilisation of the egf, since this money is used to retrain dismissed workers and help them reintegrate into work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the committee of the regions also calls for the strengthening of the social welfare state and the introduction of long-term policies to re-industrialize the countries most affected by the crisis and which have been subject to austerity policies and memoranda.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report providing for the european adaptation fund to support estonia and the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by eesti energia as, nitrofert as and viru keemia grupp as, as the country's application qualifies for a financial contribution from the european adaptation fund and the estonian authorities have provided all the necessary assurances requested. with this grant, the dismissed workers will have access to personalised services such as (a) support for formal studies - payment of formal studies, (b) reimbursement of training costs for employers, (c) labour market training, (d) teaching of the estonian language, (e) practical work experience, (g) psychological support, (h) a scholarship and a travel and accommodation allowance for learning the estonian language, so that with this assistance they will be able to re-enter the labour market.
in writing. ‒ we always overlook the mobilisation of the egf, since this money is used to retrain dismissed workers and help them reintegrate into work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the committee of the regions also calls for the strengthening of the social welfare state and the introduction of long-term policies to re-industrialize the countries most affected by the crisis and which have been subject to austerity policies and memoranda.
in writing. ‒ we support the adoption of a legislative framework to ensure that all persons with disabilities can access all websites and websites of public bodies and services.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report because the accessibility of the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies, i.e. those providing information and services essential to citizens, must be ensured for all users, in particular for people with disabilities, who number 80 million and represent 15% of the eu's potential working population. member states and the eu should take appropriate measures to ensure equal access for persons with disabilities to, inter alia, communication and information technologies, including the internet non-harmonised national approaches to web accessibility create barriers to the internal market. the commission is therefore proposing to harmonise national public sector measures at eu level as a necessary condition to put an end to this fragmentation and lack of confidence in the web accessibility market. harmonisation will lead to improved market conditions, more jobs, lower web accessibility costs and more accessible websites.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the plant health is a very important issue throughout europe and the agreement reached by the european parliament and the council on plant pest control measures is a truly important achievement. this regulation, despite its individual imperfections, will enhance plant safety and biodiversity through a risk-based approach, allowing for faster decision-making, faster action and better cooperation between member states. that is why we supported the motion.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress the need to improve the eu's overall capacity to develop, create and maintain jobs, thereby addressing high levels of unemployment, by creating a growth-friendly regulatory framework.
in writing. ‒ we support the proposal and call on the commission to establish as soon as possible at eu level a legal limit for industrial trans-fats (both at ingredient and finished product level) in all foodstuffs, in order to reduce their intake in all population groups.
in writing. ‒ the high consumption of trans fats is a risk factor, in particular for the development of coronary heart disease, a disease which is responsible for around 660,000 deaths per year in the eu. these fatty acids are used more in cheaper foods, which means that people with low incomes are more exposed to foods high in trans-fatty acids. this, of course, exacerbates health inequalities. i voted against this resolution, which calls for mandatory limits on the use of industrially produced, partially hydrogenated vegetable oils (trans-fatty acids) which increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer's, diabetes and obesity. the labelling of these products is important but not sufficient. it must be accompanied by the imposition of mandatory limits.
in writing. ‒ the the report stresses that mandatory limits should be set on the use of industrially produced trans-fatty acids, which can increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer's, diabetes and obesity. it is also rightly pointed out that the existing measures on product labelling are not sufficient, with the result that consumers are not aware of the existence of trans-fatty acids. the report therefore calls on the commission to propose, as soon as possible, a maximum permitted limit for the use of trans-fatty acids in all foodstuffs. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, europol estimates that over 10,000 unaccompanied refugee children have been lost in europe because of the union's inadequate policies and its refusal to provide them with safety and shelter. at the same time, the calais camp, a symbol of shame and failure of european policies for the reception of refugees, is being demolished without taking appropriate measures to ensure the safety of unaccompanied minors. those of these children who have not been transported to the uk and those who will not be crammed into buses to be transported to other parts of france are very likely to fall victim to smugglers and traffickers. even today the fate of some 1,300 unaccompanied minors remains uncertain. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the situation in turkey. commissioner, ensuring the safety and orderly settlement of unaccompanied minors is an obligation of the union deriving from the charter of fundamental rights, the charter of the rights of the child and the united nations convention on the rights of the child.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, i apologize for the delay. i'll be very brief. besides, i think all is said and done. i just want to add this: while someone is trying to put out a fire in a house, but at the same time does not close the gas canister that feeds that fire, at least one can say that this is naive. i say this because i think that the main task of the european union should be to try to consolidate peace, to try to help prevent wars from happening, and not the other way around, that is to say, to create wars and have all these problems that we are facing today. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to find a solution to the problems of the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if it does not do that, then it will have to deal with this wave of refugees with all these difficulties that we are facing.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, relations between the european union and belarus must be strengthened for the benefit of all europeans. but for us, nuclear safety is a major issue. the european union and belarus must intensify discussions on this issue, which must be the pinnacle of the efforts of all democratic people, states and societies. woe to us if we neglect this duty. the situation in belarus is certainly a complex one and requires the careful attention of belarusians and europeans. in conclusion, i too would like to condemn the fact that the death penalty is still being used in one european country.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, what is happening in turkey today is appalling. and the main thing that is happening is the exploitation, the use of the coup, in order to impose the president of the country on every stone of this territory. in my view, the division in this country is so deep that it does not bode well either for the country itself or for its neighbours. if turkey is not pressured - and i am referring to a major event of the last few days - to immediately withdraw its forces from mosul and end the siege of that city, the whole region may explode and then we may think that what we have seen so far is just the prelude to a great tragedy. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres, which will be able to provide information on the activities of the european union and its member states. in conclusion, i would like to point out that, unfortunately, after the coup, the more the oppression of half the population of the country by the president of the country increases, the less, unfortunately, or even more, the criticism of the european union decreases.
blue-card question. – i have a very simple question for madam bildt. i do not know what kind of people you meet from turkey, madam bildt, but it is obvious that the people from turkey that we meet, the vast majority of us, are very different from the ones that you meet because we get a very different opinion. but anyhow here is my question: with half the judges and the prosecutors having either been dismissed or put in jail, do you still believe that someone in turkey can have a fair trial? is erdoğan for democracy or a new sultan? that is my question.
the commission madam president, turkey is a cruel and unstoppable dictatorship. a vast prison, especially after the july coup. the resolution rightly stresses that the emergency measures to suppress and combat terrorism should be lifted. but the fight against press freedom is a key weapon of dictator erdogan. the european union continues to coddle turkey and to succumb to its blackmail, even though everyone here has given horrible examples of authoritarianism. the resolution does not contain any suggestion for sanctions against turkey. the report that turkey is allegedly the target of terrorist attacks is false. turkey itself is supporting terrorism at the expense of other countries. it is a terrorist state and it illegally occupies cyprus. he is founding islamic schools of fanaticism in occupied cyprus, kosovo, skopje, bosnia and albania. if sanctions are not imposed on turkey, tomorrow erdogan will throw this resolution into the trash can.
s & d) and the madam president, journalists are imprisoned because they have an opinion. teachers, professors, academics are being persecuted for doing their jobs. kurdish mayors and mps are persecuted because they are kurdish. half the judges are either fired or in jail. and finally, this country, which i did not name, is governed by presidential decrees and some people here pretend to be a democratic country. but i will continue, madam president, with the following: why do we not demand that turkey start implementing its commitments, starting with cyprus, which is a member state of the european union? one name was not mentioned tonight. she's a journalist who's not in prison. her name is serena shim. why isn't he in jail? because the turkish state and the intelligence services murdered her, because she was the first to expose erdogan's dirty deals with the islamic state.
the commission the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we haven't heard anything new. turkey does well what it does over time. it violates human rights, it violates principles, it violates values. just that it's turned into a vast prison and journalists are persecuted the way they are is just the tip of the iceberg. we support the resolution condemning turkey on this issue, because we consider it self-evident that turkey is condemned every day for what it does not only to the detriment of its own people but to the detriment of all others. we are not surprised, because for us this is turkey. it is the same turkey that continues to occupy cyprus. it is the same turkey that for 42 years has been violating basic human rights, is an invader, is an occupying power, has an occupying army, disregards principles, values, resolutions of the united nations and the security council. it is still turkey itself which does not recognise a country as a member of the european union. it is precisely turkey that has now gone so far as to call into question international agreements, the treaty of lausanne for greece, in order to overturn those imposed by the peace treaties. it is turkey itself that has done what it has done to the armenians, the kurds, its neighbours, the greeks over time. he's on a consistent and steady course that ignores principles and values. we have to face up to this turkey which is encouraged by our tolerance. i believe that now is the time for the european union not to take steps backwards in relation to these principles and values. it is time for turkey to understand that the european union cannot be ignored. turkey has no right to disregard all this.
the commission madam president, i believe that the cause of our young people must be the first priority for all europeans and particularly for the european union. we therefore call on you, commissioner, to take initiatives and actions to strengthen and support young people. as the initiative to provide our young people with an interrail card was very well taken, so it is time to give away free wi-fi, to prove that the european union is close to our young people and gives access and opportunity, especially at a time when the digital economy is at the forefront. i am also of the opinion that it is our young people who should take the initiative and i believe that if europe wants to invest in its future, it must invest first in young people. i believe that many young people are socially excluded and marginalised and it is very important to set up a pan-european fund to support young people in all forms, particularly for their studies. there are many young people who, because of the economic crisis, cannot afford higher education. i believe that our present and our future are the young, and that is why we must support them with all our strength.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that effective budgetary control requires cooperation between parliament and the council.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this report, as the council refuses to adequately account for the additional expenditure incurred in 2014. we believe that all eu institutions should be audited transparently, adequately and equally in terms of their budgets.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of this report, as the council refuses to adequately account for the additional expenditure incurred in 2014. we believe that all eu institutions should be audited transparently, adequately and equally in terms of their budgets.
in writing. ‒ approves the closure of the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and congratulates the rapporteur on her report;
in writing. ‒ we supported the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget, since it is a cover for additional expenditure which has been incurred.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget, since it is intended to cover additional expenditure which has been incurred.
in writing. ‒ we support the report on the closure of the accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014.
in writing. ‒ we supported the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget, since it is a cover for additional expenditure which has been incurred.
in writing. ‒ we vote in favour of the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget, since it is intended to cover additional expenditure which has been incurred.
in writing. ‒ approves the closure of the accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion for the financial year 2014;
in writing. ‒ our disagreement with nuclear energy programmes is clear. we therefore voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion for 2014.
in writing. ‒ our disagreement with nuclear energy programmes is clear. we therefore voted against the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion for 2014.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and strongly condemn the ongoing violence and mass killings by isis/daesh in iraq.
in writing. ‒ the situation in northern iraq and mosul is very serious. the joint resolution, however, contains problems which do not allow us to vote in favour. it also makes no mention of turkey's role in the region and it makes no mention of the responsibilities of the us and eu member states for how we have got to this point.
in writing. ‒ the mosul is a decisive step forward in our effort to defeat daesh. our highest priority is the protection of civilians. we need to ensure that they are not trapped in mosul under gunfire and bombing attacks and that they are not used as human shields by daesh. we call on all parties to respect international humanitarian law, the principles of proportionality and discrimination, to take all preventive measures to minimise casualties and to ensure that civilians, schools and hospitals are protected from bombing. i would also like to express my full support for a sovereign and independent iraq. this will be done through further humanitarian assistance and the restoration of the rule of law and its basic services, such as health care, education and ensuring the safe return and reintegration of refugees and internally displaced persons, the protection of vulnerable minorities and the political participation of all ethnic and religious minorities. i firmly believe that the negotiations on the future of mosul should include all religious minorities. we urgently need concrete measures to protect civilians, including buffer zones and humanitarian corridors.
in writing. ‒ we are here, in the same play, spectators, to denounce turkey for abuses and violations. this time the victims of turkey are journalists, the representatives of freedom of the press, of information. the right of citizens to be informed freely, democratically and objectively is being effectively strangled. this is the country that wants to become an eu member state and for which some people are tearing their clothes because it is not progressing on its path to membership. this is the country that some people consider to be a strategic partner of the eu. turkey has become a vast prison and it is the rule to arrest, convict and kill innocent people, innocent journalists.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution calls on turkey to immediately end the arrests, threats, violations and restrictions it imposes on journalists and their families. according to the european federation of journalists and the turkish journalists organization, since july 15, more than 99 journalists/intellectuals have been arrested without charge. if you add the media workers who have been arrested, the number comes to 130. the resolution also calls on turkey to relax the state of emergency, which, in conjunction with the existing anti-terrorism law, destroys any notion of the rule of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ the the failed coup in july left 241 dead and thousands injured, with 90 journalists imprisoned, over 2,500 jobless and arrest warrants issued against hundreds of media workers in the country. in late september, the turkish government shut down some 20 tv and radio channels accusing them of "spreading terrorist propaganda" and extended by 90 days the state of emergency declared after the coup attempt (from october 19). can dündar, former editor-in-chief of cumhuriyet, turkey's main opposition daily newspaper, was arrested in november 2015 after his newspaper published reports showing turkish intelligence officials smuggling weapons to syrian rebels. he was later sentenced to five years and ten months in prison for "revealing state secrets". freedom of speech is a fundamental right which must be accepted and respected by all. we must safeguard this right so that objective and impartial information can continue to be available.
in writing. ‒ the the situation of press freedom in turkey has deteriorated over the past decade and especially after the failed coup, as the turkish government abuses the state of emergency it declared to severely restrict freedom of speech and the media. in total, about 100 journalists and writers were arrested. most of them haven't even been charged. 104 media outlets have been closed, resulting in over 2,300 journalists losing their jobs, press accreditation has been revoked for at least 330 journalists, and arrest warrants have been issued against hundreds of media workers in the country. all this is mentioned in the european parliament's resolution. the resolution also stresses that the failed coup cannot be used as a pretext to silence the opposition and journalists and calls on the turkish authorities to release immediately the journalists and media workers detained without charge. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the european union is also calling on turkey to stop violating freedom of expression. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ we believe that the conditions for security and sustainable nuclear disarmament can only be achieved through a multilateral process in which the parties participate in good faith. we also express the conviction that nuclear disarmament is the most important objective of arms control policies on a global scale and that the pursuit of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty (npt) for a world without nuclear weapons should be the ultimate long-term ambition.
in writing. ‒ the the deterioration of relations between the nuclear-armed states is making the security environment of the european union increasingly tense. the states must reduce their nuclear weapons and their nuclear capabilities. the need to strengthen nuclear non-proliferation and cooperation on the peaceful use of nuclear energy is emphasised. the proposal to convene a united nations conference in 2017 to negotiate a legally binding instrument to prohibit nuclear weapons is of paramount importance.
in writing. ‒ we call on member states to support the european voluntary service in their education and academic systems as a tool for spreading education in solidarity and civic participation with the younger generation as the recipient.
in writing. ‒ the the european union needs a better coordinated policy on volunteering and needs to give volunteers an appropriate legal status to help them join programmes. almost 100 million citizens of the european union have taken part as volunteers in education, culture, the arts, sporting events and humanitarian and development aid work. young people should benefit from volunteering programmes so that they develop skills and gain the experience that helps them find work later. people of all ages should be encouraged to benefit from volunteering to improve their skills and to understand other cultures. the european commission is required to propose a european voluntary charter to ensure that all voluntary organisations have appropriate legal status and institutional recognition.
in writing. ‒ the the fact is that the economic crisis has hit young people hard. inequalities between certain categories of young people have increased, while more and more young people are losing their place in social and public life. the situation is further aggravated by the fact that for some there is a risk of social inactivity, exclusion and isolation, and even violent radicalisation. we stress that young people, as human and social capital, are one of the most important resources and guarantors of europe's future.
in writing. ‒ i am voting against the resolution on the evaluation of the eu youth strategy because youth policy should be a responsibility of the member states and the eu's role is limited to coordination, guidance and support. the strategy aims to facilitate the transition from school to the world of work and then to promote active participation in the public. finally, there is no doubt that the integration of young people into the labour market and the development of their human capital will also be supported by other bodies such as the esf, the investment plan for europe and the youth employment initiative.
in writing. ‒ the young people, as human and social capital, are one of the most important resources and guarantors of europe's future. the economic crisis has hit young people hard. inequalities between certain categories of young people have increased, while more and more young people are losing their place in social and public life. the situation is further aggravated by the fact that for some there is a risk of social inactivity, exclusion and isolation, and even violent radicalisation. the report aims to promote youth employment, their integration into the labour market, their social acceptance and their active participation in society. progress could be argued to have been made in many areas, but further solutions need to be found to reduce youth unemployment, improve their quality of life, achieve equal opportunities, enhance youth self-awareness in relation to the public, increase social participation and prevent violent radicalisation. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the the report contains both positive and negative reports. for example, while it emphasizes that unemployment is one of the greatest problems of young people, it makes no reference to the harsh austerity policies, i.e. the causes that led to the increase in unemployment and social exclusion of young people. the same applies to the reference to the need to combat poverty. the proposal to strengthen the relationship between business and universities is not as problematic as the response to unemployment. for these reasons we abstained.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. a simple question: do you think that there is any responsibility for what you have said in german economic policy, and in particular in mr schäuble's policy, and in the attempt of this country to germanise european economic policy?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the commission's policy of deepening, neoliberalism and austerity is dogmatically pursued, regardless of the fact that it is leading large sections of the population into poverty. how else to understand the gaps in the employment comments contained in the european semester package of measures? the commission is obviously a success story in that it is the numbers that prosper, not the people. in the countries of the south, inequalities are increasing. poverty affects over 20% of the population, compared with 27.3% in spain, 28.5% in italy, 27.8% in cyprus and 37.5% in greece. at the same time, youth unemployment continues to soar. in these countries the unemployment rate among young people is over 30%. the tragic case of greece is even more tragic, with the youth unemployment rate reaching 52.4%. the policies of austerity and the memoranda of the european semester are nothing but a ruthless attack on the workers and the sovereignty of the peoples of the union.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and strongly support the conclusion of this operational and strategic cooperation agreement with ukraine, as it will help and strengthen the fight against organised crime, which is by definition international, and will contribute to strengthening international cooperation in the field of trafficking in human beings and other related criminal issues.
in writing. ‒ the the report concerns the proposed approval of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine, which provides for the exchange of information containing personal data. such information may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on crime investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and advice and support in specific criminal investigations. we disagree on both the substance and the procedural issues. in substance, we reject such agreements with third countries, especially when there are no high standards of human rights protection. the agreement can also be seen as a supplementary instrument for exerting pressure on russia. it is worth noting that the european parliament voted in favour of the new europol regulation, which will come into force next year, and on the basis of which such agreements will be discussed more transparently. so the council's haste to push these agreements forward under the old regime is troubling. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the ukraine is a key partner of the european union in the eastern partnership, and security and the fight against crime are essential imperatives in order to fully achieve the objectives of this partnership. ukraine is increasingly important in the fight against organised crime, in particular drug-related and financial crime, trafficking in human beings and smuggling of persons, as well as mobile organised crime groups. the exchange of information will enable the european union, the member states and ukraine to prevent and combat organised crime, terrorism and other forms of international crime. i voted in favour of the report on the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol, as this agreement will create opportunities for training and activities in the field of crime prevention and will help to strengthen international cooperation in the field of trafficking in human beings and other related criminal matters.
in writing. ‒ the the report concerns the proposed approval of an operational and strategic cooperation agreement between europol and ukraine, which provides for the exchange of information containing personal data. such information may include expertise, general situation reports, results of strategic analyses, information on crime investigation procedures and crime prevention methods, participation in training activities, and advice and support in specific criminal investigations. we disagree on both the substance and the procedural issues. in substance, we reject such agreements with third countries, especially when there are no high standards of human rights protection. the agreement can also be seen as a supplementary instrument for exerting pressure on russia. it is also worth noting that the european parliament voted in favour of the new europol regulation, which will come into force next year, and on the basis of which such agreements will be discussed more transparently. so the haste of the council and europol to push these agreements forward under the old regime is troubling. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ we support the request for waiver of immunity, given that there is no suspicion of an attempt to obstruct the parliamentary activity of jean-françois jalkh in the context of the judicial inquiry, which was launched after the lawsuit brought by the union maison des potes maison de légalité, before he was elected as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity of jean-françois jalkh, mep for the front national (france), so that the judicial investigation against him by the french judiciary for incitement to racist behaviour and practices can proceed.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the waiver of jean-françois jalkh's immunity in relation to the alleged offence of incitement to discrimination, racial hatred and violence against a person or group of persons on the grounds of their origin or membership or non-membership of a particular ethnic group, race or religion, an offence under french law, following a complaint lodged by the union maison des potes maison de l'égalité. in order to enjoy immunity, a member of the european parliament must express his opinion in the performance of his duties and there must therefore be a link between the opinion expressed and the duties of a member. however, jean-françois jalkh was not a member of the european parliament when the alleged offence was committed, i.e. on 19 september and 30 november 2013. however, this allegedly offensive material was accessible to anyone who wished to access it on 23 june and 2 october 2014. the case must therefore be referred to the french courts.
in writing. ‒ we support the request for waiver of immunity, taking into account that there is no suspicion of an attempt to obstruct the parliamentary activity of jean-françois jalkh in the context of the judicial investigation, which was launched following the lawsuit filed by the union 'national office for the monitoring of anti-semitism (bnvca) '.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of lifting the parliamentary immunity of jean-françois jalkh, mep for the front national (france), so that the judicial investigation against him by the french judiciary for inciting racist and anti-semitic behaviour and practices can proceed.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the waiver of jean-françois jalkh's immunity in relation to the alleged offence of incitement to discrimination, racial hatred and violence against a person or group of persons on the grounds of their origin or membership or non-membership of a particular ethnic group, race or religion, an offence under french law, following a complaint lodged by the union 'national office for the monitoring of anti-semitism (vbnca) '. in order to enjoy immunity, a member of the european parliament must express his opinion in the performance of his duties and there must therefore be a link between the opinion expressed and the duties of a member. however, these charges are not related to jean-françois jalkh's status as a member of the european parliament. on the contrary, they concern activities of a purely national and regional nature, since the statements concerned the local elections in france held on sunday 23 and sunday 30 march 2014 and his capacity as director of publications of the front national. the case must therefore be referred to the courts of the french republic.
in writing. ‒ we support the agreement as it implements the principles of the new common fisheries policy and supports its implementation.
in writing. ‒ the on 12 september 2012, the commission presented a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 (com ((2012) 0498 final) with a view to improving and clarifying the provisions of council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. we voted in favour of the agreement because it is compatible with the principles of the new common fisheries policy.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report as it strengthens the effort to combat money laundering. in the context of the report, the tax authorities of each member state will be able to exchange, within three months of their collection, documents and information on taxable persons/account holders.
in writing. ‒ the the revelations in the swissleaks, luxleaks, panama papers and bahamas leaks cases, which are isolated manifestations of a global phenomenon, confirm the absolute need for greater tax transparency and much closer coordination and cooperation between jurisdictions. moreover, the established link between tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering requires international cooperation in order to make the fight against such activities effective and efficient. the report, which i voted in favour of, obliges the tax authorities responsible for combating money laundering, in whatever country of the european union they are located, to automatically share information such as bank account balances and interest and dividend income with their counterparts in the other member states. this will ensure maximum transparency and provide a key tool for preventing and combating fraudulent behaviour of all kinds.
in writing. ‒ the we are also opposed to the use of money laundering and to transparency in banking and other transactions. the report is moving in the right direction and promotes the exchange of banking information between member states within a period of three months. we voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and recall that the monetary dialogue is important to ensure transparency in monetary policy vis-à-vis both parliament and the wider public.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because it stresses that, despite all the european central bank's incomplete strategies, the solutions it has given have been sufficient and what is needed now is for member states to continue or deepen their structural reforms, to deepen and complete the banking union and to harmonise the monetary policy of the member states. our approach is in the exact opposite direction.
in writing. ‒ the the ecb's 2015 report highlights that the euro area continues to suffer from high unemployment, excessively low inflation and large macroeconomic imbalances, as well as a very low level of productivity growth, due to a lack of investment, the failure to implement structural reforms and weak domestic demand. i voted in favour of the report, which stresses that a single monetary policy is not sufficient on its own to stimulate aggregate demand, but must be complemented by sound fiscal policies and ambitious and socially balanced programmes of structural reform at member state level. the report also criticises the gap between the interest rates on finance granted to smes and those for larger companies. the ecb needs to do more to ensure that liquidity reaches the real economy and smes in particular. in the light of the uk's proposed withdrawal from the eu and given the low growth rates, geographical disparities in the euro area and the lack of investment in the real economy, the debate on completing and fully implementing the eu's banking union and completing work on the capital markets union in order to improve the effectiveness of the single monetary policy is more timely than ever.
in writing. ‒ the the report stresses that, despite all the european central bank's (ecb) flawed strategies, the solutions it has provided have been sufficient and what is now needed is for member states to continue or deepen their structural reforms, to deepen and complete the banking union and to harmonise the monetary policies of the member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. our disagreement with the above approach is vertical. we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress the importance of ensuring that there are no unnecessary or unfair differences between euro-area and non-euro-area member states. the single market must be kept intact in this vital respect too if it is to be truly effective.
in writing. the green paper does not simplify, let alone negate, the various complex 'products' with which multinationals and banks promote casino capitalism. these are the 'products' with which they profit at the expense of the people and, if they are not combated, we could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the the construction of a functioning single market in retail financial services is an important undertaking. this is a typical case of real added value being created by the european union. the presentation of the green paper is timely for at least three reasons: first, if we want to have effective regulation in such a rapidly changing market, we must intervene directly now, in the last stages of the policy cycle. we must monitor closely the implementation at national level. we must prepare ourselves from the outset to carry out an adequate assessment. it is important to identify the real problems and the real opportunities as soon as possible. secondly, it is clear that, despite the significant steps forward made in recent years, there is still much to be done. the construction of a single market for retail financial services has not yet progressed to a large extent. thirdly, the green paper is also timely because today's digital world is opening up new possibilities at a rapid pace. with the right approach, digitalisation can create just the momentum needed to start removing cross-border barriers. there is now a real possibility of linking financial operators and an opportunity to create a single market. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this green paper because it does not simplify, let alone abolish, the various complex 'products' with which multinationals and banks promote casino capitalism. these are the 'products' with which they profit at the expense of the people and, if they are not combated, we could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report which recalls that, in order to ensure its long-term security, europe needs political will and determination, based on a broad set of relevant policy instruments.
in writing. ‒ the the report is based on the idea of militarizing the european union. it promotes the objective of developing the european union's military capabilities so that it is ready to intervene in any situation within or outside its borders. it also seeks to contribute to the european defence union in strengthening the nato project. it also called for the creation of a start-up fund for preparatory activities before military operations and for the strengthening of eu cooperation with nato. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the the security situation inside and outside europe has deteriorated significantly in recent years due to challenges that no country can address alone, such as terrorism, cyber threats and security breaches and energy. the challenges above leave eu countries with no choice but to step up cooperation between their national armed forces, paving the way for the creation of a european defence union. for the sake of solidarity and resilience, the eu must remain united, but also act unitedly and systematically. through the european defence union, it is proposed to establish a 'european defence semester' in which each member state will consult the planning cycles and procurement plans of the other states, and to strengthen and extend the role of the european defence agency. the resolution calls on the european council to 'take the lead in the progressive framing of a common union defence policy and to provide additional financial resources to ensure its implementation'.
in writing. ‒ the report is moving in the direction of the militarization of the eu. it promotes the objective of developing the european union's military capabilities so that it is ready to intervene in any situation within or outside its borders. it also seeks to contribute to the european defence union in strengthening the nato project. it also called for the creation of a start-up fund for preparatory activities before military operations and for the strengthening of eu cooperation with nato. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and note the potential and feasibility of integrating passenger water transport in a multimodal mobility framework, with an emphasis on public transport in large urban areas, for both mobile workers and tourists.
in writing. ‒ the the green own initiative report touched rather superficially on the subject of water transport, leaving a number of other important issues behind. we therefore voted against it. that was the position of the shadow rapporteur of our group.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report which makes recommendations for improving passenger waterway services, including sea ferries, inland waterway ferries, barges and cruise ships, and for the proper integration of passenger waterways into existing public transport networks and the improvement of the ticketing system. a large number of workers in europe travel by road, creating bottlenecks and delays in europe's urban centres. better use of the available capacity of passenger shipping could contribute not only to reducing congestion and co2 emissions but also to improving air quality and providing better transport services overall. the use of existing european union funding should be fully exploited for the further development of inland and coastal water transport.
in writing. ‒ the the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. however, little progress has been made so far. the report does not differentiate between small regular ship routes and large leisure cruises, nor between strategic impacts such as their contribution to social and long-term territorial cohesion or to higher overall environmental performance. nor is there a call for proper social, economic and environmental assessment in the design and financing of new related infrastructure. the report touches on the subject of passenger shipping in general, and that is why we abstained.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and recall the european union's longstanding commitment to improving aid and development effectiveness through development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the the european union has made a long-standing commitment to improving aid and development effectiveness through development cooperation and december will mark the 5th anniversary of the establishment of the busan partnership for effective development cooperation. in this context, the report stresses the crucial role of official development assistance. it also stresses the need for the private sector to respect the principles of international law and social and environmental standards. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ the the european union has played an important role in developing the existing standards for aid and development effectiveness. the european union has taken important steps to increase aid transparency, improve joint programming, address conflict and instability, and measure results. i voted in favour of the report which points out that more efforts are needed, both at european union level and at global level, to increase the effectiveness of aid and development cooperation. the european union and its member states could work towards new initiatives to develop trilateral cooperation projects involving emerging donors and middle-income countries. the european union and its member states could act more proactively and systematically to ensure the involvement of national parliaments, local authorities and civil society in development aid-related programming and budgetary commitments by publishing country-specific reviews of development cooperation. further involvement of civil society and elected representatives in the implementation of the agenda for development effectiveness should remain a priority.
in writing. ‒ the the european union has made a long-standing commitment to improving aid and development effectiveness through development cooperation and december will mark the 5th anniversary of the establishment of the busan partnership for effective development cooperation. in this context, the report stresses the crucial role of official development assistance. notes with concern that only five member states had published busan implementation plans in 2015 and calls on the member states to publish the implementation plans and report on their efforts; it also stresses the need for the private sector to respect the principles of international law and social and environmental standards. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i would like to say that i am not opposed to russia's interference in the region. but i think that the fact that there is no discussion or no mention of the responsibilities of other states, such as the united states and the united kingdom, is not right, especially when we consider that the evil began with the invasion of iraq. so i wanted to ask if you could take a more holistic approach to this issue.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, i think that our parliament would lose every shred of dignity if it did not take the step it seems to be taking. i shall not repeat what is happening in turkey today, since i have only one and a half minutes. but i will stand by the arrest of the leader of the third largest party in the country, representing at least six million voters. we have nothing against the turkish people, who are suffering from a deep division, which does not bode well for the people themselves. the report by mr pimenta, which i am sure will be of great interest to the house, is a very good report, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it. despite the crisis in the cyprus talks, i welcome the agreement between tsipras and erdogan to meet to discuss security in the post-solution era, which i hope will not be far away. i also welcome your report, mrs mogherini, in favour of the need for a rapid solution to the cyprus problem. and i'd like to close with this: the convergence achieved is a very important foundation which we must not allow to be lost. and you have a share of responsibility to help things along at this very critical juncture in the talks after yesterday's negative result. we all have a role to play and a responsibility to contribute so that the european union can at least make progress towards this great success. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i think it is very unfortunate to compare the arrest of democratic people, the leader of the largest party, with the allegations against the party you are referring to, which unfortunately have to do with serious criminal offences.
the commission madam president, those who care so much about cyprus should know that what turkey is asking for in order to accept the settlement of the cyprus problem is and will continue to be a violation of the human rights of the cypriot people. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the expulsion of the cypriot people continues and the republic of cyprus is in danger of becoming a turkish protectorate. the european union is tolerating this situation and is basing itself on the talks, which have already collapsed, without taking any action against turkey. it is still financing turkey, but it is not imposing sanctions, as it did with russia. the european union is not prepared to accept the terms of the agreement, but to accept the terms of the agreement, which are not the same as those of the agreement. he would not accept his children being forced to go to a turkish school. you do not know what the solution turkey is demanding involves. you do not know that turkey will control the european union through the veto of the federal government of cyprus, which it will control completely. we ask you to support the implementation of the principles and values of the european union, to support the implementation of all the benefits enjoyed by your own peoples and for the cypriot people, by imposing sanctions on turkey.
the commission the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i should like to point out, however, that this attitude on the part of turkey is not new. the european union has been tolerating and tolerating this behaviour for a long time, and turkey has been frustrated and provoked. we all know that turkey has been violating human rights in cyprus on a daily basis for the last 42 years, that it has invaded and occupied a country of the european union, that it continues to provoke and offend the feelings of all of us. i should like to stress that the president of the republic of cyprus, mr nicos anastasiades, has done his utmost to find a solution to the cyprus problem. but during the talks in switzerland, he was confronted with the unacceptable refusal of turkey to back off from offensive positions because it wants to remain a guarantor power in a country that is a member of the european union, in a modern country. i should like to stress that it is also the responsibility of the european union to support the solution of the cyprus problem in the face of a turkey which continues to challenge even greece by calling into question international treaties. in conclusion, many here have pointed out that turkey is a strategic partner. i hope he will withdraw because he is neither a strategic partner nor a reliable partner.
s & d) and the i think it is time to answer two very basic questions. the first question is, what kind of turkey do we want? i'm not sure. the second question is: has our attitude so far helped us to have a democratic turkey ? i'm not sure. we want a democratic turkey that respects the rights of its citizens, that respects the sovereignty of its neighbouring states, we want a turkey that does not possess other small states on its territory. the european union has been a great success in its relations with turkey. i answer clearly "no". i would remind you that in reply to the resolutions we have adopted so far on turkey, mr erdoğan said that they would be thrown in the trash. this morning turkey demonstrated its position by virtually torpedoing the talks on the settlement of the cyprus problem.
s&d), in writing. the resolution, as far as its content is concerned, is heading in the right direction, but it is years late. the freezing of turkish accession funds, which is being proposed today, would have put substantial pressure on turkey years ago, as we insisted, to form democratic institutions. today, turkey is now firmly established under the dictatorship of the fanatical majority poisoned by erdogan's islamism. in this environment, the freezing of funds is a purely political message, but it does not exert any real pressure on the erdoğan regime. for those who expect that the resolution will put pressure on erdogan, they have received a harsh response today, with the dismissal of another 15 thousand employees in turkey without any justification. a lever of pressure on the regime exists. it's the financial costs and sanctions, as imposed elsewhere. now, as we freeze the opening of funds, the erdogan regime will enjoy huge economic benefits and privileges from the turkey-eu customs union and the pre-accession funds that it will use to further entrench itself in power. recently, he announced a 40% increase in the salaries of muftars and imams, through which he manipulates turkish society. as a european union it is rather impossible to change erdogan's turkey. but the liberation of european cyprus from turkish occupation troops is something we can and must demand.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, we are discussing the west bank and we can confirm that the situation is becoming increasingly inhuman. the occupation forces' raids on homes, the demolition of schools and homes, the prevalence of gun violence, attacks by 400 000 settlers against the palestinian people, the imprisonment of children, murders and persecutions. this is the reality. as we speak, the settlers are exploiting the natural resources in the palestinian territories for their own benefit and are violating the human rights of the palestinian people. in 2016 alone, the occupation forces destroyed a thousand palestinian structures, 158 of which were financed by the european union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it is not enough to wish for peace. the european union must put pressure on israel to end its settlement activity, lift its occupation and commit to a road map for peace and two states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would like to ask for a simple clarification: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i don't disagree with you at all. but how does this combine with reducing pollution in europe? or did you mean something else?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, the paris agreement has provided an important framework for tackling climate change. however, the objective of the 22nd climate summit, to develop national action plans and promote more specific targets to strengthen actions by 2020 and thus support the implementation of the paris agreement, failed. unfortunately, in marrakesh, the progress we expected for immediate action was not achieved, nor were ambitious targets set on the basis of the needs of the people and not on the basis of the interests of multinationals and monopolies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner, the european union and the rich countries, regardless of what the united states does, must immediately move forward in cooperation with china and other countries, support the developing countries, develop a comprehensive action plan to combat energy poverty, to end the wasteful use of natural resources and deforestation, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to promote renewable energy sources.
in writing. ‒ we reject the timetable of parliament's sessions for 2018, as we agree with the proposed dates.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the report, as we have important disagreements with some of the points in the report.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report and note that air pollution is high on the political agenda as a major public health issue.
in writing. ‒ the the purpose of the directive is to reduce national emissions of certain air pollutants in order to address the extremely significant health risks and environmental impacts, in particular of air pollution in the union. however, the report shows serious shortcomings in particular with regard to the removal of the methane and mercury emission ceilings and the absence of binding interim (2025) targets for reducing emissions (there is only a reference to indicative targets). we therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report which calls for reducing the national emission ceilings for key pollutants by 2030, including nitrogen oxides, particulate matter and sulphur dioxide. poor air quality is responsible for over 400,000 premature deaths each year and the economic cost to health is estimated at between €300-900 billion each year. some 90% of europeans living in cities are exposed to air pollution levels considered harmful to human health, and many vulnerable socio-demographic groups are particularly affected. the new agreement to reduce national emission limits will cut the number of premature deaths from toxic air by almost half by 2030, forcing governments across europe to act and ensure, for the first time, that all polluting sectors, including agriculture, take responsibility for what they emit. the member states must now act to fully implement the directive and, moreover, to put into practice their ambition to combat air pollution.
in writing. ‒ the the case of air quality is a cross-border health and environmental issue. this report concerns the commission proposal to revise the existing ets directive by setting new emission ceilings for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds other than methane for 2020 and 2030. the report is not without its weaknesses. the text is not ambitious in terms of emission limits, and there is flexibility in the application of the directive by the member states, which makes the application of the limits very difficult. in addition, there are no binding interim targets for 2025. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that a resilient and well-capitalised banking system is a prerequisite for maintaining financial stability.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because our main concern was that european banks should not be at a disadvantage compared to their counterparts in the usa. the concern of the financial sector in the european union is that the proposals could lead to significantly higher capital requirements especially for banks using internal models. the report is based on the need to create a level playing field and proportionality, especially for smaller and less complex banks. while we agree with some of these concerns (in relation to smaller and less risky banks), we fundamentally disagree with the fact that the banking industry should not be overburdened. we believe that internal models in banks were a major cause of the financial crisis, as they were often used to hide significant risks on banks' balance sheets.
in writing. ‒ the the resolution raises the issue of banks' capital adequacy and the impact on their lending capacity. the question is whether the additional capital that banks would have to hold as reserves under the proposed revision of the capital adequacy rules for banks (basel iii finalisation) would reduce their ability to lend to the real economy and reduce their international competitiveness. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and equal opportunities for men and women, is a very important one. banks need to have sufficient capital to support the real economy, reduce systemic risk and avoid a repeat of the huge bailouts that took place during the crisis.
in writing. ‒ the the main concern of the large groups in parliament and the main economic circles in the union was obviously to 'maintain the competitiveness of european banks' vis-à-vis their american counterparts. this is why banks are not forced to increase their capital adequacy and their speculative techniques are not addressed. we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report and note that the european security environment has deteriorated significantly, becoming more fluid, more complex, more dangerous and less predictable.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for an increase in the military component of the csdp, more investment in defence and defence research. we are opposed to the report because it supports deep cooperation with nato, calls for a strong defence industry and welcomes the european action plan, which benefits the defence and security industries of the european union. we call for radical (including chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear) disarmament at european union level and at world level, no military funding from the european union budget, strict separation of the european union from nato and a non-military european union. a european union that will promote peace and solve problems through dialogue and not through the use of arms.
in writing. ‒ the the implementation of the common security and defence policy provides greater support to member states fighting the islamic state. i voted in favour of the report calling on the council to set up a fund to provide emergency funding for the initial phase of military operations and calling on the eu to support in a coherent way the member states participating in the coalition against the self-proclaimed islamic state, through the creation of a common security and defence policy operation in iraq focused on training. security has become a major problem for eu citizens. we call for a full and substantial revision of the common security and defence policy, which can no longer be merely an instrument for crisis management outside the union, because it must ensure a genuine european common security and defence policy, bridging internal and external security, but also become an eu tool for managing international crises at all stages of the conflict cycle. effective implementation of recent decisions on the development of cepol is vital to protect citizens and promote eu values and interests, in full respect of the treaties, international law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and call on the relevant eu institutions and authorities to monitor closely the sources of funding for anti-eu propaganda.
in writing. ‒ the the report highlights two threats in terms of propaganda: a state entity, namely russia, and terrorist groups such as daesh. this indirect attempt to link the two is not at all accidental, since it attempts to present russia's role in eastern europe similar to that of daesh in the middle east. this is unacceptable to us. the report also sets out a number of synergies that the european union and the member states should pursue in cooperation with nato to address these situations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the we stress that the fight against propaganda cannot be done with more propaganda but with more positive messages and awareness and information campaigns. the draft resolution stresses that the european union is under increasing systematic pressure to counter disinformation and propaganda campaigns by various countries and non-state actors using a wide range of tools, such as fake news agencies and online 'trolls', aimed at undermining democratic values and dividing europe. but i'm not equating russia with the islamic state. there has to be a clear separation and we must not equate russia with the islamic state. it's irresponsible to put a state like russia on the same level of threat as the islamic state. russia must be recognised as a key partner of the european union and a key global player, both in external security and in the common fight against the islamic state.
in writing. ‒ the report attacks journalism and calls on journalists to use nato tools, such as the strategic communications centre, to 'fight' the russian media. it also seeks to equate russia with terrorist organizations. finally, the report identifies a number of synergies that the european union and the member states should pursue in cooperation with nato to address 'dangerous situations'. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress the need for skilled professional sign language interpreters.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because it is moving in the right direction by calling on the european union to recognise the needs of deaf and hard of hearing people and to take all the necessary measures to provide them with all the necessary professional interpretation services.
in writing. ‒ the there are about one million deaf sign language users in the eu and 51 million hard of hearing citizens, many of whom are also sign language users. the resolution, which i voted in favour of, stresses the need for official recognition of national and regional sign languages in the member states and in the eu institutions, the strengthening of the role of professional sign language interpreters, the provision of high-quality sign language interpretation services in order to strengthen the fight against discrimination on the grounds of disability. the resolution also stresses the need to ensure accessibility, i.e. that deaf, hard of hearing and hard of hearing citizens have access to the same information and communication with their fellow citizens through sign language interpretation, subtitling, speech recognition and/or alternative forms of communication. as full citizens, all persons with disabilities have equal rights and are entitled to respect for their dignity, equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society.
in writing. ‒ the the report is moving in the right direction by calling on the european union to recognise the needs of deaf and hard of hearing people and to take all the necessary measures to provide them with all the necessary professional interpretation services. it also called for the implementation of holistic policies in this area. our group tried to strengthen the report by introducing amendments on specific policies in education systems, but without finding support from other political groups. we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the the who reported in 1991 that bentazone has relatively low acute toxicity in rats, guinea pigs and rabbits and has classified it as a mildly hazardous substance by the who. there are also studies showing that it is toxic to living organisms and that, if found in high concentrations in drinking water, it is also very toxic. that is why we voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ who has classified bentazone as being of moderate concern. there are also studies showing that it is toxic to living organisms and that, if found in high concentrations in drinking water, it is also very toxic. that is why we voted against the motion for a resolution.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i think that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i would like to mention the thousands of women, mainly from syria, who have drowned in the mediterranean sea in their quest for freedom. there are not many ways, beyond the conventions, but we need discipline and punishment, that is, prevention and repression. education should include specific courses on gender equality. i would like to conclude by saying that in this room, ladies and gentlemen, there is a woman who has suffered the most brutal violence to her face and she is sitting behind me. it's mrs. cuneva, who was attacked with caustic poison. i would like to welcome her with a round of applause, not because she suffered this violence, of course, but because she was fighting before the event and much more because she continues to fight after this tragic story, with strength, for the rights of women and men. i thank her personally. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we believe that, in the face of the economic difficulties jordan is facing, the european union must support its partner, whose policy of welcoming refugees is commendable.
in writing. ‒ while we fully share the need to strengthen the jordanian economy, which is also suffering from the host country of millions of refugees from syria, we voted against the proposal, as the european union's macro-financial assistance under consideration is directly linked to imf programmes that impose neoliberal structural reforms and are already being implemented in the country.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report which calls for the implementation of a macrofinancial assistance programme to bring tangible benefits to jordan at this crucial time. due to its geographical location, jordan is one of the countries most directly affected by the crisis in syria. since 2011, its economy, which is mainly based on services and industry, has been severely affected by the instability in the region. at the same time, jordan is the country that hosts the largest number of refugees in the world in relation to the size of its population, along with lebanon, and has committed to facilitating the employment of syrians. jordan is in a partnership with the european union, which is its second largest trading partner. it is therefore logical, given the economic difficulties jordan is facing, that the european union should support its partner, whose policy of welcoming refugees is commendable.
in writing. ‒ while we fully share the need to strengthen the jordanian economy, which is also suffering from the host country of millions of refugees from syria, we nevertheless vote against the proposal, as the european union's macro-financial assistance under consideration is directly linked to imf programmes that impose neoliberal structural reforms and are already being implemented in the country.
in writing. ‒ we support the report which aims to facilitate the development of occupational pension savings.
in writing. ‒ we abstained in the vote on the report because, although our group's amendments were not taken into account, the report was clearly better than its original form, particularly with regard to issues such as information given to beneficiaries, the environmental risk of investments, transparency and the limitation of portfolio investments.
in writing. ‒ the the proposal aims to improve the governance and transparency of institutions providing occupational pension benefits in europe, to promote cross-border activity and to facilitate long-term investment. a delicate balance is also sought between strengthening national systems, respecting national discretion and encouraging the development of cross-border systems. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the proposal, which i voted for, reinforces the reference to national social and labour provisions, with a focus on the protection of insured persons, while introducing the concept of a duty of care, in order to avoid a regulatory race to the bottom through cross-border schemes.
in writing. ‒ this is a directive that fully promotes the privatisation of pension systems. the european parliament's report stresses, however, that the sovereign right of the member states to determine the provisions of their pension funds must not be interfered with. it is a very small improvement on the directive, since the principle of the directive remains unchanged. that is why we abstained.
in writing. ‒ the we are deeply shocked by the violence in syria and strongly condemn all attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, the continuation of all sieges in syria and the lack of access for humanitarian organisations to the suffering syrian people. we also express our deep concern at the human suffering and misery in the besieged areas of aleppo and throughout syria, affecting many women and children who lack access to basic humanitarian goods and are in desperate need of food, clean water and medical supplies. we therefore call on all participants in the international syria support group to resume negotiations to facilitate a stable ceasefire and to intensify work towards a permanent political solution in syria.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the joint resolution on the situation in syria because it is clear that the resolution's aim was not to highlight the current tragic situation, but to attack russia and assad once again. syria is a country that has been brought to its present state by the policies of the united states and member states, but the dominant groups in the european parliament are pretending not to see this fact.
in writing. ‒ the the world has repeatedly been shocked by the atrocities against civilians carried out in syria by isis and other terrorist groups, as well as by the assad regime. i condemn in the strongest terms the widespread violations of human rights and international law and the indiscriminate aerial bombardment by the assad regime, russia and others in aleppo in recent weeks. the resolution calls on all armed groups to immediately cease hostilities, to pave the way for the resumption of negotiations and to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches all those in need throughout syria.
in writing. ‒ the the complaints from all the groups in the european parliament against turkey for violating human rights, for disregarding the principles of international law and for completely violating the principles and values of the european union are not a recent affair. we must admit that turkey has been tolerated, tolerated and treated with grace by the european union over time. human rights are being violated by turkey and in a member state of the european union, cyprus, which has been invaded and occupied for 42 years. despite the strong efforts of the president of the republic, nicos anastasiades, and his will to resolve the problem peacefully, turkey again led the negotiations in switzerland, without result, because the invader continues to cling to provocative and unacceptable positions. turkey is the occupying power which created the cyprus problem and is the only one capable of resolving it immediately. the european union and the other powers must put real pressure on turkey. i keep hearing that turkey is a reliable and strategic partner. the fact is that turkey has never been reliable and cannot be presented as a strategic partner. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of and co-signed the resolution on eu-turkey relations and the situation in the country. it is another strong resolution of this parliament that shows that this country is not going in the right direction. the state of emergency imposed on the country and all that it entails, together with the imprisonment of hdp leaders, forced parliament to proceed with this resolution. the resolution calls on the council and the commission to suspend the accession negotiations with turkey.
in writing. ‒ the four months after the failed coup attempt in turkey, the deterioration of the democratic situation in the country is causing a stir in eu-turkey relations. accession negotiations with turkey were opened in october 2005. of the 35 chapters required to be completed to proceed with the accession process, only 16 have been opened and of these only one has been closed, that for science and research. the accession talks with turkey must be suspended temporarily. on the initiative of the socialist and democratic group, of which i am a member, the european parliament stresses in this resolution that there is no alternative solution as long as the turkish authorities continue to neglect and undermine democracy and the rule of law. the dialogue with ankara should be maintained, but erdogan must understand that in turkey, as a candidate country, the rule of law, democracy, freedom of the press and minority rights must be unshakable pillars. the eu must send a strong political message by freezing accession talks until the turkish government returns to the path of respect for the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. ‒ the unfortunately, violence against women is too often considered a private matter to be tolerated. in fact, this is a violation of fundamental rights and a serious crime that must be punished accordingly. the impunity of perpetrators must end, in order to break the vicious circle of silence and loneliness for women and girls who have been victims of violence.
in writing. ‒ the violence against women and gender-based violence remain widespread in the european union. 33% of women in the european union have experienced physical or sexual violence since the age of 15. the european union must act immediately. i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the council and the commission to speed up the negotiations for the european union's accession to the istanbul convention, thus ensuring a coherent european legislative framework for preventing and combating violence against women and gender-based violence and for protecting victims of violence. the accession of the european union will also put renewed political pressure on the member states to ratify this act. it is clear that the european union's efforts to eliminate violence against women and girls must be part of an overall plan to combat all forms of gender inequality. the resolution calls for a european union strategy to combat violence against women and gender-based violence.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report on the european ombudsman, as we recognise the efforts that have been made/are being made to enhance transparency on such serious issues as ttip, the european citizens' initiative, fundamental rights in the context of the european union's cohesion policy, the frontex complaint and the 'revolving doors' inquiry, an issue that has come back to the fore after barroso's appointment to goldman sachs.
in writing. ‒ the the report welcomes the work of the european ombudsman and highlights the main areas of activity for the year 2015. the role of the european ombudsman's office is to investigate complaints from citizens about maladministration by the eu institutions or other eu bodies, or it can conduct inquiries on its own initiative, with the aim of making the eu institutions more open and citizen-friendly. the year was particularly marked by the theme of transparency (ttip negotiations, ecb, eu decision-making, whistleblower and conflict of interest). the european ombudsman also investigated the respect for fundamental rights, in particular with regard to the role of frontex, as well as the spending of money by member states on projects funded by eu funds, for example on projects for people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ the the report endorses the activity report submitted in 2015 and congratulates it. welcomes the efforts to consolidate transparency in the various institutions and bodies of the european union and underlines the 8 strategic inquiries launched on important issues such as transparency in ttip negotiations, disclosure of documents, the european citizens' initiative, fundamental rights in the context of eu cohesion policy and the complaint against frontex. it also focuses on the opening up of the 6 strategic initiatives, including the ecb's transparency, the activities of former commissioners, and the asylum, migration, and integration fund. the report generally takes a critical approach to a number of important issues. that is why we voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the vat generated almost €1 trillion in revenue in 2014 and is a major source of revenue in the eu. it represents about 7% of the union's gdp and provides part of the eu's own resources. from the outset, the current vat system was prone to fraud and is now largely outdated. despite numerous initiatives to correct this, the problem remains. i voted in favour of this report which makes proposals to improve the vat collection system, eliminate vat fraud and reduce red tape, aim to further simplify business for smes and, most importantly, underlines the need for harmonisation at eu level in tax policy.
in writing. ‒ while simplification of the vat system is needed to combat fraud, it cannot be done for more profiteering by multinationals. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. the report does not touch on these issues at all. we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and are concerned that the illegal trade in wildlife has become a multi-billion euro criminal industry controlled by organised criminal groups. the low risk of detection and high profits attract gangs, which exploit illegal wildlife trapping and transport to finance their criminal activities.
in writing. ‒ the the illegal wildlife trade has developed into a multi-billion euro criminal industry controlled by organised criminal groups. the low risk of detection and high profits attract gangs, which exploit illegal wildlife trapping and transport to finance their criminal activities. the action plan sets out priorities for the period 2016-2020 that will strengthen the european union's role in combating wildlife trafficking globally: prevention, law enforcement, cooperation, and recognition of the european union as a destination, source and transit market for wildlife products. that is why we voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of this action plan because the european union is an important player in the fight against wildlife crime, because it is a major destination for illegal wildlife products, as well as a transit point and often a source for illegal wildlife trade, especially between african, asian and latin american countries, but also within the european union itself. the action plan is part of the european union's response to the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development. the first priority of the action plan is to prevent wildlife trafficking and to tackle its root causes. the second priority is to ensure the effective implementation and enforcement of existing rules to combat organised wildlife crime. the third priority is to strengthen global cooperation among countries of origin, consumption and transit to combat wildlife trafficking. finally, the member states of the european union have a shared responsibility to tackle this problem and prevent the rapid decline of some of the rarest wild species in the world.
in writing. ‒ the the illegal wildlife trade has developed into a multi-billion euro criminal industry controlled by organised criminal groups. the low risk of detection and high profits attract gangs, which exploit illegal wildlife trapping and transport to finance their criminal activities. the action plan sets out priorities for the period 2016-2020 that will strengthen the european union's role in combating wildlife trafficking globally: prevention, law enforcement, cooperation, and recognition of the european union as a destination, source and transit market for wildlife products. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that small transport enterprises are an integral part of mobility in europe. they also have a wealth of talents that need a supportive environment to express themselves. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this is the only way for small businesses to turn the many challenges they face today, and in particular the challenges of the ict revolution, into opportunities.
in writing. ‒ the the report is written with the aim of representing the interests of multinational transport companies in order to create a stable legal framework for efforts to promote the development of the cooperative economy and, in the name of this legal framework, considers that safety is used as a pretext to create artificial barriers. the report defends the entrepreneurial spirit but not the rights of workers, calling for more flexible working conditions and working hours. it also advocates the single european transport area, which is the european way to promote privatisation of the sector. the report does not mention a strong public transport network, it does not explain why public transport has low use and development in some areas. nor does it mention any target for reinvestment in public transport by strengthening public networks, but it does state that: 'smes are an important complementary element'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ the the report criticises anti-competitive practices, which can lead to serious distortions, such as social dumping. small transport enterprises are therefore an integral part of mobility in europe. they also have a wealth of talents that need a supportive environment to express themselves. the most favourable regulatory, social and tax conditions are needed, because only then will small businesses be able to turn the many challenges they face into opportunities. the information and communication needs of the transport sector are so important that they are turning the sector into a fertile ground for the digital economy and, above all, for mediation platforms. the new technologies, which have become accessible to small businesses, are significantly modernising the mobility economy. the first challenge for small businesses is to be able to take advantage of this digital transition. secondly, we are in the best possible situation to develop sustainable solutions which will enable us, despite the limited capacity of transport infrastructure, to meet the growing needs of mobility in an environmentally friendly way. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report seeks to represent the interests of multinational transport companies, paves the way for the strengthening of monopolies, calls for more flexible working relationships and working hours and promotes privatisations. it also sets no target for reinvestment in public transport by strengthening public networks. the report is therefore entirely in line with the interests of multinationals and neglects the public interest and the development of central public transport services in the member states, so we have decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ we support the joint motion for a resolution and call on the belarusian authorities to continue without delay work on a comprehensive reform of the electoral system within the framework of the wider democratisation process and in cooperation with international partners.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i think that a large part of the debate has been devoted to youth unemployment, and i think that is justified, but i would like to add the following: there are countries where youth unemployment starts at 20% and often reaches 40%. this is a bombshell against the foundations of democracy, because if young people are unemployed, they are alienated from the structure of the european union and from democracy itself, because there is nothing worse than feeling that you are not part of society. i want to close with this: there must be radical action to tackle youth unemployment, who have tons of knowledge, far more than if you add up the knowledge of all of us in this room, and they knock on our door looking for work and we are ashamed to tell them that we have difficulty dealing with this problem. the european union must make a comprehensive, radical effort to deal with this issue, because tomorrow we will face their anger, their bitterness and perhaps their reaction.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union has a duty to help the victims of terrorism, and we must do so in a spirit of solidarity. on the other hand, no one wants to be a victim of terrorism as a citizen, possibly innocent, imposed by the decision or agreement between the european union and the united states. there is an expression that may be key to our decision: "better to have a few guilty people out of prison than an innocent man rotting in prison", and this is what has happened to us after the deal that may or may not be approved tomorrow. the fact that there is a rush, as has been said by other colleagues, to conclude this agreement before mr trump arrives, apart from being certainly offensive to him, regardless of the views that each of us has on the new president of the united states, shows that we are moving at a speed that puts us at risk. and the last one: i personally do not accept that this agreement should concern only european citizens and not some other people who live here.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr king on his speech and all his colleagues who have moved in the same direction, because it was a speech straight from the heart of the enlightenment. but, mr. king, our problem is that the racists, the xenophobes, they don't listen to us. they're not in contact with us. your speech may reach the ears of those who agree with us. the rest of them have already built their own identities. they're locked in a virtual camp. what can be done ? we need a welfare state. we need to bring them back into contact with the larger society. i am referring to the citizens, not to the powers that promote racism. how can that be? social state, social state, jobs for all, good and fast access to health systems for all, social state, education at all levels; and we still need media that do not promote populism, that do not depend on political powers. that's what we need, mr. king, or we'll be beaten. social policy!
in writing. ‒ the the competent authorities in the member states do not have a legal basis to apply the provisions relating to lodging the entry summary declaration, notification of the arrival of a seagoing ship or aircraft, the transport and presentation of goods to customs on unloading or transhipment, the waiting for the granting of a permit before unloading or transhipment of goods and the provisions on temporary storage. there is a lack of a clear legal basis requiring the presentation of goods to customs authorities. the latter find that their effective customs supervision is impeded in that they are unable to properly enforce import duties and other charges, to properly apply non-tax measures such as health checks, and to identify risks relating to goods arriving at their ports or airports. the proposal to amend article 136 is intended to fill this gap and to ensure equal treatment of goods.
in writing. ‒ the proposal introduces a series of measures aimed at strengthening investor protection and restoring consumer confidence in the financial services sector by increasing transparency in the retail market for investments. it will require manufacturers of retail packaging and insurance-based investment products to produce a key information document.
in writing. ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a key contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of kiribati and constitutes a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement will have a positive impact, as it simplifies travel procedures for businessmen, facilitating investment and tourism. it stresses that visa-free travel is a significant means of bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens not only to take full and tangible advantage of the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling at reduced economic and practical costs.
in writing. ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a tangible result of the deepening of relations between the european union and solomon islands and constitutes a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement will have a positive impact, as it simplifies travel procedures for businessmen, facilitates investment and stimulates tourism in the european union. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens not only to take full advantage of the acp-eu partnership but also to participate in it by travelling at reduced economic and practical costs.
in writing. ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a tangible result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the federated states of micronesia and constitutes a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. it is noted that the visa waiver agreement will have a positive impact, as it simplifies travel procedures for businessmen, facilitates investment and boosts tourism. the visa waiver is a significant means of bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens not only to take full advantage of the acp-eu partnership but also to participate in it by travelling at reduced economic and practical costs.
in writing. ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a key contribution to the deepening of relations between the european union and the state of tuvalu and constitutes a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement will have a positive impact, as it simplifies travel procedures for businessmen, facilitating investment and tourism. the commission will also encourage direct contacts between european citizens and the citizens of tuvalu. the visa waiver is a significant means of bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens not only to take full and tangible advantage of the acp-eu partnership, but also to participate in it by travelling at reduced economic and practical costs.
in writing. ‒ the the agreement on the short-stay visa waiver is a tangible result of the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands and constitutes a complementary instrument to strengthen economic and cultural relations and intensify political dialogue on a range of issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement will have a positive impact by simplifying travel procedures for business people, facilitating investment and boosting tourism. the visa waiver is a significant means of bringing the peoples of europe and the pacific closer together. the visa waiver agreement allows citizens not only to take full advantage of the acp-eu partnership but also to participate in it by travelling at reduced economic and practical costs.
in writing. ‒ the the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up to respond to major natural disasters and to show european solidarity in the affected areas of europe. the fund was set up following the severe floods that hit central europe in the summer of 2002. since then, it has been used on 72 occasions to deal with disasters such as floods, forest fires, earthquakes, storms, and droughts. to date, over €3.8 billion in aid has been provided to 24 different european countries. i voted in favour of the report, which emphasises a number of recommendations for possible improvements in the management of the fund in areas such as speed of response, prevention and complementarity, transparency and cooperation between the different levels of decision-making.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the eu-us agreement on the protection of personal data exchanged by judicial and police authorities. the aim of the agreement is to ensure high and binding standards of data protection for data exchanged by the police and law enforcement authorities. the agreement covers all personal data, such as names, addresses or criminal records, exchanged between the eu and the us for the purposes of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting criminal offences, including terrorism. the agreement guarantees eu and us citizens: the right to administrative and judicial redress; the right to be informed of a breach of their data security; and the right to have their personal data corrected if inaccurate. so there will be high, binding standards and enshrined rights for citizens in both the eu and the us when data is exchanged between police and law enforcement agencies.
in writing. ‒ having examined all other budgetary options for addressing unforeseen circumstances within the 2016 commitment ceilings for heading 3 of the multiannual financial framework and having mobilised the flexibility mechanism for the entire amount of eur 1530 million available for 2016, it is necessary to mobilise the contingency margin to cover the needs arising from the crisis in the areas of migration, refugees and security by increasing the commitment appropriations of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016 above the commitment ceiling for heading 3.
in writing. ‒ the the main update of draft amending budget (dab) 4/2016 is the reduction of the amount of payment appropriations by eur 7,3 billion. this money is returned to the member states. draft amending budget no 4/2016 also includes, inter alia, the increase of eur 240,1 million in security and citizenship commitment appropriations and the acceleration of staffing for the new european border and coast guard regulation.
in writing. ‒ the the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance in response to the disaster in germany (floods in the region of lower bavaria, and in particular the district of rottal-inn) in may and june 2016. the series of extremely intense and short-lived/instantaneous floods caused damage to public and private infrastructure, private housing and agriculture. seven people were killed and more than 47,000 people in lower bavaria were injured, while more than 2,000 people were unable to return to their homes two months after the floods. the town of simbach am inn was almost completely destroyed and was without water for three weeks. significant damage to businesses and farms was also reported, as well as severe damage to basic infrastructure, the water network, the sewerage services and the electricity network.
in writing. ‒ having regard to draft amending budget no 6/2016 covering the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund, in relation to the floods in germany in may and june 2016, taking into account that the commission therefore proposes to amend the 2016 budget and to increase the appropriations for budget article 13 06 01 'assistance to member states in the event of a major natural disaster with serious consequences for living conditions, the natural environment or the economy' by eur 31 475 125 in both commitment and payment appropriations, and that the european union solidarity fund is a specific instrument as defined in the mff regulation and that the corresponding appropriations should be entered in the budget above and beyond the ceilings, voted in favour of that proposal.
in writing. ‒ the the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was established to enable the union to respond to emergencies caused by major natural disasters. this proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council aims to enter in the general budget of the union for 2017 an amount of eur 50 million in commitment and payment appropriations for the provision of advances in a timely and effective manner in the event of a disaster in the coming year. this is a direct result of the new provision in the 2014 amending regulation, which aims to speed up the disbursement of aid to affected countries by granting an advance before a final decision on the granting of aid is taken, thereby enhancing the effectiveness of the fund. the eusr is not just another form of eu financial support, but also helps to send a clear political message of solidarity and provide the necessary assistance to the affected citizens. the possibility of rapid reaction, including by granting an advance, will help the union to achieve these objectives.
in writing. ‒ the the devastating earthquake that struck central italy in august this year has left a tragic legacy: human losses, thousands of displaced people, serious damage to local and regional infrastructure. all this is dealing a heavy blow to the historical and cultural heritage and economic activities. in addition, the italian national, regional and local public authorities are under great and intense financial pressure. it is obvious that in such emergencies an expression of solidarity is invaluable. i voted in favour of the resolution calling on the commission and the member states to further simplify the procedures for activating the european union civil protection mechanism so that it can be quickly and effectively available immediately after a disaster. this should be a priority given the high seismicity of south-east europe. it also stresses the importance of creating synergies between all available instruments, including the european structural and investment funds, to ensure that resources are actually used for reconstruction activities and all other necessary interventions, in full cooperation with the italian or, in the future, national and regional authorities.
in writing. ‒ the report underlines the need for transparency and accountability. the guidelines are a step in the right direction as there is now a procedure for the scrutiny of declarations of financial interests prior to the hearing of commissioners-designate, a procedure for the scrutiny of declarations of financial interests during the commissioners' term of office and finally a code of conduct for commissioners.
in writing. ‒ the the report focuses on the importance of updating existing civil liability systems in the member states to ensure that the 'polluter pays' principle is applied not only for environmental damage but also for traditional damage (personal injury/material damage and consequent economic loss). incidents in european waters must not adversely affect the future of offshore oil and gas activities in that state or in the eu as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the the political situation in the democratic republic of the congo (drc) is particularly worrying. there is deep concern about the deteriorating security and human rights situation in the dprk, in particular the continuing reports of increasing political violence. the political crisis in the dprk can only be resolved through a joint and unambiguous commitment by all parties to respect the constitution and through meaningful, open, impartial and transparent political dialogue. i voted in favour of the resolution urging the eu to adopt targeted sanctions, including visa bans and asset freezes, against senior officials and members of the armed forces responsible for the violent repression of the protests and the political impasse that prevents a peaceful and constitutional transition of power in the drc. the successful and timely holding of elections before 2018 will be crucial for the long-term stability and development of the country and the entire region. the eu remains fully mobilized in the face of the risk of instability in the country and the threat this poses to the region.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the implementation of the european order for payment procedure is intended to provide feedback on almost 10 years of experience in the implementation of this procedure throughout europe. the main conclusions of the report were positive for the successful operation of the procedure in all member states. the report also calls on the commission to prepare an impact assessment and a future review which should focus on ensuring greater harmonisation in the application of the procedure.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, we have some information, which i assume has reached other colleagues, that the chairman of the people's democratic party in turkey, mr selahattin demirtaş, has health problems, more specifically, problems of a heart disorder. we think it is right for parliament or for you to ask the turkish government to allow doctors to visit him, because so far it has forbidden it. this in no way diminishes the denunciation you made of the istanbul bombings. these two issues are not connected, but it would require your intervention to allow him medical help.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, commissioners, we as gue/ngl will not support an energy package which subordinates energy entirely to the needs of the market, making it a tool for the benefit of multinationals and monopolies. unfortunately, the commission is promoting the complete liberalisation of the electricity market, which will give suppliers the right to hoard electricity and thus impose as high a price as they wish. they are asking from 2012 to oversee the energy planning of the states and to have superpowers, thus undermining the sovereign rights of the states. although some progress has been made in promoting energy efficiency, the 30% target for 2030 is a serious setback compared to the 40% target set by the european parliament. the same applies to the 27% target for renewable energy sources, instead of the 30% or more requested by the european parliament. it is also a negative thing that the priority for renewable energy sources in the networks is being eliminated. once again the commission recognizes the problem of energy poverty but fails to propose a comprehensive action plan to combat it. it has also failed to provide solutions to serious energy problems, such as the energy isolation of european countries and regions. it also failed to provide a comprehensive and proper framework for addressing climate change. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ we support the report on the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the people's republic of algeria, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the people's republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the people's republic of algeria in union programmes, as we consider it extremely important.
in writing. ‒ the agreement concerns the participation of algeria in union programmes. we are not in disagreement with this, especially since this is the will of the algerian government. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ i support the draft protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the people's republic of algeria, of the other part, on the framework agreement between the european union and the people's republic of algeria on the general principles for the participation of the people's republic of algeria in union programmes.
in writing. ‒ the in the context of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), the gradual opening-up of certain union programmes and agencies to the participation of the enp partner countries is one of the many measures to promote reform, modernisation and transition in the european union's neighbourhood countries. in accordance with a council decision, the european neighbourhood policy partner countries are allowed to participate in community agencies and programmes on the basis of their performance and where the legal bases so permit. algeria has expressed its wish to participate in a number of union programmes. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the framework agreement on the general principles for algeria's participation in union programmes, which contains specific terms and conditions, in particular the financial contribution and the reporting and evaluation procedures, for algeria's participation in each specific programme.
in writing. ‒ the in february 2013, algeria expressed interest in participating in the eu's general programmes open to the european neighbourhood policy partner countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of europe, and that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of europe. for these reasons we abstained.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the report, as it contains a number of points with which we disagree.
in writing. i am in favour of the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic and repealing the regulation. parliament needs to introduce new and stricter transparency rules, including obligations to publish information on european vessels targeting deep-sea species and reporting on all fisheries in the ecosystem.
in writing. ‒ the deep-sea fishing in the north-east atlantic accounts for about 1% of landings from the north-east atlantic. the economy of many fishing communities depends to some extent on the fishing of deep-sea species. deep-sea stocks are fish stocks caught in waters other than the main shelf fisheries. i voted in favour of the report, which raises, among other things, the issue of sustainable management of stocks and the issue of preventing significant adverse impacts on vulnerable marine ecosystems. the european union will freeze its fishing footprint by specifying in which areas deep-sea fishing will be allowed. the area includes the area where directed fishing took place between 2009 and 2011 in eu waters of the north-east atlantic. in addition, a fishing limit of 800 metres was agreed. this new measure aims to protect more effectively the fragile deep-sea marine ecosystems. similarly, it was agreed that vessels caught fishing in vulnerable marine ecosystems at a depth of more than 400 metres should cease their operations and move at least five nautical miles from the fishing area concerned.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report. the revision of the rules of procedure is mainly due to internal reasons, such as improving the functioning of parliament, clarifying the rules and enhancing transparency.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the general revision of parliament's rules of procedure, as it was an attempt by the large political groups to restrict the rights of small groups, as well as the rights of meps. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed a number of transparency measures which have unfortunately not been accepted by the majority of the house.
in writing. ‒ the the report calls for a number of changes which will strengthen the role of the large political groups and limit the scope for action for the smaller political groups, both in committees and in the plenary. some of the most fundamental changes, such as the limitation of the powers of meps, the reduction in the number of resolutions they are entitled to table and the way in which scrutiny of the legislative process will be exercised, are clearly creating serious problems. the attempt to speed up the legislative procedure greatly limits the ability of meps to intervene and exercise effective control over the procedures. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we reject the report and stress that fundamental rights are universal, indivisible and always complementary and that, therefore, the right balance must be struck between the rights of all members of a rich and diverse society.
in writing. ‒ the the report on the human rights situation in the eu is produced annually and aims to present the situation in the eu on the basis of human rights and in addition to make recommendations for improving the existing situation. in addition to some positive elements contained in the report, a number of key weaknesses are presented. the report makes no mention of the negative consequences of the crisis and austerity measures that prevent access to fundamental rights, social rights and access to the most basic human needs such as education and health care. in addition, there is no mention of the need for the right to protection against poverty and social exclusion. the absence of reference to social rights as an integral part of fundamental rights is significant, as they are recognised by international and european conventions, yet they are generally absent from the approach of the eu institutions to fundamental rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and immigration, in particular by ensuring that the union's asylum policy is consistent with the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and by ensuring that the union's policies are consistent with the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the eu institutions are called upon to ensure a high level of protection of these rights in external relations. finally, i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution because freedom of expression, information and the media are fundamental and inviolable in order to safeguard democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, are the values on which the eu is founded. however, racism, discrimination, extremism and intolerance are a major challenge for the european union today. the complex crises and widespread violations and abuses of human rights and fundamental freedoms today require increasingly determined efforts by the eu. i voted in favour of the report, which sets out the main issues to be highlighted, which are, inter alia, the fight against human trafficking and smuggling networks, the fight against discrimination and prejudice against religion or belief, age, disability, sexual orientation or gender identity, the fight against violence against women, freedom of the media, communication and information, addressing violations of the fundamental rights of migrants and refugees at the eu's external borders and social inclusion and integration into the host society of those who are victims of international crime, combating child poverty.
in writing. ‒ the the report contains both positive and negative reports. some of the positive reports relate to refugees and the current asylum framework, the massive violation of prisoners' rights, the rise of racism and xenophobia. however, the report makes no mention of the negative consequences of the crisis and austerity measures that prevent access to fundamental rights, as well as access to the most basic human needs such as education and health care. in addition, there is no mention of the need for the right to protection against poverty and social exclusion. the negative aspects of the report may also include references to the immediate establishment of the european public prosecutor's office with specific and exclusive powers and the proposal to give the commission the power to impose sanctions on member states. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and underline that in 21st century europe, with the transition to the digital economy, ict is increasingly replacing traditional manufacturing processes and traditional value chains. today, producing quality content, the ability to innovate, to tell a story, to imagine, to provoke emotions, has become our most valuable raw material. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
in writing. ‒ the although article 167 tfeu expressly excludes harmonisation in the field of culture, stating that the eu's competence is only to encourage cooperation between states and to complement their action to improve knowledge and dissemination of culture and to protect cultural heritage, this report nevertheless seeks to establish a concrete framework setting out the conditions for the management of culture as another profitable industry. even the individual positive references in the report to the need to increase funding in the cultural and creative sectors, support smes and tackle gender-related discrimination in the labour market are overridden by the ultimate goal of serving market needs and harnessing the full potential of the cultural and creative sectors as another tool to enhance competitiveness. we therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the i am voting against the eu's coherent policy on the cultural and creative industries because i believe that the cultural and creative industries (ccis) have a dual value: first, they play a key role in preserving and promoting europe's cultural and linguistic diversity, reinforcing a sense of european and regional identity, contributing to the transmission of knowledge and values, while safeguarding europe's tangible and intangible heritage for present and future generations. at the same time, they are a tool for social cohesion, through their significant contribution to the eu economy in terms of employment, investment, growth and innovation, and make a significant contribution to europe's global competitiveness. finally, it is becoming strategically important to support innovative and research-oriented ict as they are able to maintain linguistic and cultural diversity, pluralism and the provision of innovative and high-quality services, especially in the context of a converging and globalised market.
in writing. ‒ the cultural and creative industries (ccis) are those industries based on cultural values, individual creativity, skills and talent, with the potential to create wealth and jobs through the production of value from intellectual property. the cultural and creative sector is considered to be a major and growing part of the global economy. i voted in favour of the report, which focuses on a number of measures to make full use of the potential of the cfp. to realise the full potential of the sector, coordinated action is needed at national, regional and local level, but also at eu level. as regards financing, the emphasis is on new forms of financing such as micro-credit or crowdfunding and the role of the commission and the member states in promoting and improving the regulatory framework. finally, as the report stresses, the eu could take a leading role in promoting the significant positive impact of the creative sectors across europe and also promote policies to safeguard europe's most unique asset: its culture.
in writing. ‒ the although article 167 tfeu expressly excludes harmonisation in the field of culture, this report seeks to establish a specific framework setting out the conditions for managing culture as yet another profitable industry, which, by using specific indicators measuring economic impact, can be used to enhance the union's competitiveness. even the individual positive references in the report to the need to increase funding in the cultural and creative sectors, to support smes and to tackle discrimination in the labour market, are overridden by the ultimate goal of serving the needs of the market and exploiting the full potential of the cultural and creative sectors as yet another tool to enhance competitiveness. the report promotes culture as an instrument of the european external action service's external policy and calls for the cooperation of universities with business to respond fully to the needs of large enterprises and the labour market. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
in writing. ‒ we are moving away from the report, which contains a number of ambiguous elements.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report on women's rights in the eastern neighbourhood. there are many positive references such as ensuring women's participation in trade union organisations, combating gender-related discrimination at work, stressing the need for affordable childcare services and clear parental leave provisions, calling on authorities to strengthen the network of quality care infrastructure for the elderly and dependent persons, calling for equal access to education for all children, placing particular emphasis on the education of rural girls, and urging intensified action against the crime of trafficking in human beings based on the scandinavian model. the text does, however, contain some exaggerated intervention in the internal affairs of other countries with orders for specific actions. for example, he promotes quotas. the report also acknowledges that gender equality cannot be understood in the context of the neoliberal policies promoted by the eu in the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on women's rights in the eastern partnership countries because the stabilisation of the neighbourhood is one of the main objectives of european foreign policy and the european neighbourhood policy (enp) to ensure security, peace, stability and prosperity, and undoubtedly, in order for this to be implemented, the role of women is crucial. it is a fact that women remain largely absent from political structures, whether at the executive or parliamentary level, mainly because of discriminatory practices. finally, combating violence against women is a common challenge for the eu and its eastern neighbourhood countries.
in writing. ‒ the as underlined in the riga declaration, gender equality is an area that would greatly benefit from enhanced cooperation between the eu and the eastern partnership countries. most of the challenges are common to the eu and its eastern neighbours. the report aims to contribute to giving women's rights and gender equality a higher political priority in the eastern partnership countries. there is a need for immediate action by the eastern partnership countries to increase equality between women and men in society, including the adoption of national action plans and cooperation with international organisations and civil society actors. i voted in favour of the report, which calls on the eastern partnership countries to address the shortcomings in their national anti-discrimination frameworks and to make greater use of anti-discrimination legislation in order to increase the degree of enforcement of the laws and to stop the violation of women's rights in these countries. it also stresses the need for awareness-raising campaigns and institutional changes to eliminate negative stereotypes about women that adversely affect all aspects of their participation in society.
in writing. ‒ the the report overly interferes in the internal affairs of other states with mandates for specific actions, e.g. promotion of mandatory quotas on electoral lists and the nordic model for the suppression of prostitution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. equally serious is the fact that the report overlooks the fact that the strengthening of women's rights and, by extension, gender equality cannot be understood in the context of the neoliberal policies promoted by the eu in the eastern partnership countries. despite the report's individual positive references to ensuring women's participation in trade unions, combating discrimination at work, and calling for a strengthening of the network of quality care infrastructure for the elderly and dependent, these proposals cannot coexist and be strengthened over time because of the other measures being promoted by the eu, as is the case within the union. that's why we abstained.
mr president, i took the floor to propose to ms mogherini a very specific idea on the ongoing talks on cyprus: please support the right and the obligation of the two leaders in cyprus to propose their own suggestion on the issue of safety and guarantees. in case we face a new collapse, the leaders representing the cypriots should respond accordingly and in common line, and they should respond because they represent the cypriots, no one else supports them to do so. one final thing, try to establish in cyprus an important european institution. institutions, as you know, provide more safety than armies, not to say the opposite: that armies provide uncertainty, unsafety, rather than safety.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr. weber, you can put your headphones on. i want to say that i agree with you completely that there should be sanctions on russia. i mean it. but i want to ask you: i would like to ask the foreign affairs committee to bring mr tony blair to the house to explain why he has helped to create this huge mill of souls and bodies in syria and iraq. because as a member of the european union, england has contributed to this great evil, so we applaud the women who came here yesterday to honor them.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, dear mr juncker and mr korčok, as you will have noticed, everyone is asking: what should we do? ; and no one feels responsible, and to tell you the truth i think you're alone at night too asking yourself what to do. no one is responsible and tomorrow at the council all the leaders will also ask each other what to do, whose fault is it? i'm not sure. no one is responsible for this big, monstrous factory in syria, which grinds souls and bodies, so that we applaud the two yazidi women who have suffered what they have suffered. that's our problem; no one feels responsible. i would also like to say something about cyprus, mr juncker. i want to know who will be representing the european union in the final talks on the cyprus problem and whether it will be you, whether you will contribute and support a joint effort by the leaders of cyprus, mr anastasiades and mr akinci, for a joint proposal of their own on guarantees and security. the european union has a duty to help the people of cyprus. these two are representing him, and i want you to support them in making a joint motion.
s & d) and the madam president, in paragraph 23 of this draft council declaration, the commission is expressing its interest in working towards upgrading trade relations through the customs union between the european union and turkey. i read it twice: "upgrading trade relations". this is incredible! every citizen in the european union evaluates the erdogan regime as an authoritarian regime as it has except the leadership of the european union, which is silent. and then we wonder how euroscepticism is inflating! i am continuing with paragraph 25, where it is mentioned that the measures taken in 2016 are sufficient for turkey. i'll close with two questions: how can the cyprus problem be resolved on the basis of the principles of the european union when there are occupying troops, when the regime guarantees a solution... (the president interrupts the speaker) )
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we agree with the aim of the proposal and its content in general.
in writing. ‒ the in december 2015, poland notified to the commission a substantial reform of its national legislation on restructuring and requested the amendment of the lists contained in annexes a and b to the regulation. on the basis of this request, the commission has submitted the proposal to the european parliament and the council, so the matter is purely technical since it does not contain any substantial amendment to the substance of the regulation, and that is why we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 may 2015 on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015. in december 2015, poland informed the commission of a substantial reform of its internal law on restructuring, which entered into force on 1 january 2016, and requested that the lists in annexes a and b to the regulation be amended accordingly. the commission has examined whether the request by poland complied with the requirements of the regulation and has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council to ensure that the scope of the regulation will be adapted to the current legal framework of the polish insolvency law from the moment of its application. in order to ensure the efficient management of cross-border insolvency proceedings of debtors whose centre of main interests is in a member state, the scope of the recast regulation should reflect the actual situation of national insolvency laws. this proposal aims to ensure that the scope of the recast regulation is adapted to the legal framework of the member states on insolvency in force at the time of application of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ the regulation (eu) 2015/848 of the european parliament and of the council on insolvency proceedings entered into force on 26 june 2015 and will apply from 26 june 2017. that regulation contains in its annexes lists of insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners concerned with its application. in december 2015, poland notified to the commission a substantial reform of its national legislation on restructuring and requested the amendment of the lists contained in annexes a and b to the regulation. on the basis of this request, the commission has submitted the proposal to the european parliament and the council, so the matter is purely technical since it does not contain any substantial amendment to the substance of the regulation, and that is why we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that we fully support the work of the international labour organisation aimed at the final elimination of forced labour in uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because we cannot ignore the allegations of child labour in this country. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the protocol is applied in the member states. also, the promotion of textiles in the european union by uzbekistan will discourage the country from the urgent need for changes in the agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ the in december 2011, the european parliament adopted an interim report on the ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textiles, conditional on its agreement to an improvement in the human rights situation in uzbekistan, in particular as regards child labour and forced labour in the context of the annual cotton harvest. a dialogue has been launched with uzbekistan through which annual hearings have been held with the participation of various actors of civil society, the uzbek authorities, as well as european and international institutions. there was also close cooperation between uzbekistan and the international labour organisation (ilo) to assess the actions taken to eliminate child labour and forced labour in the context of the annual cotton harvest in uzbekistan. the report of the last ilo inspection mission showed that child labour has been almost completely eliminated in the cotton harvest. the same assurances could not be given on the issue of forced labour. it is important, as the report stresses, that cotton wholesalers and retailers stop sourcing cotton produced by forced child labour from uzbekistan and inform both consumers and all their suppliers of their position.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that we fully support the work of the international labour organisation aimed at the final elimination of forced labour in uzbekistan.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because we cannot ignore the allegations of child labour in this country. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the protocol is applied in the member states. also, the promotion of textiles in the european union by uzbekistan will discourage the country from the urgent need for changes in the agricultural sector.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the adoption of the protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of uzbekistan, of the other part, extending the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement to bilateral trade in textile products. the authorities of uzbekistan also made numerous commitments to the progressive elimination of forced labour of adults, including the establishment of a feedback mechanism to take into account complaints from the population, the organisation of awareness campaigns and the implementation of evaluation programmes on the implementation of international conventions on the subject. the european parliament fully supports the work of the ilo to eliminate forced labour in uzbekistan once and for all.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as we believe that ecuador's accession to the trade agreement with colombia and peru and its progressive and flexible implementation by the commission on the basis of a pre-accession approach, taking into account periodic reviews after consultation with the ecuadorian government and civil society on both sides, would be a step forward in the alliance with important and rapidly developing countries that embrace the same ideas in a region that is increasingly oriented towards asia and the pacific.
in writing. ‒ we voted against ecuador's accession to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement as we did with the original agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ i support the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the protocol of accession to the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of ecuador, because i believe that the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement with colombia and peru and its progressive and flexible implementation by the commission on the basis of a pre-accession approach, taking into account the periodic reviews after consultation with the government of ecuador and civil society on both sides, would be a step forward in the alliance with the major and developing countries concerned, particularly those in the asia and pacific region, which is moving towards a more inclusive and inclusive world. traditionally, fishermen do not fish in certain waters: fish for specific stocks or species and fish in waters where those stocks or species occur and also follow migratory species. this tradition predates the creation of states and the recognition of territorial waters and - much later - exclusive economic zones.
in writing. ‒ the the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, was signed in brussels on 26 june 2012, and the european parliament adopted a legislative resolution giving its consent to the conclusion of that agreement. on 20 november 2015, the european parliament adopted a resolution on the accession of ecuador to the agreement, welcoming the conclusion of the negotiations and encouraging the swift and full entry into force and application of the agreement, considering that this would allow ecuador to continue its new orientations in terms of promoting policies for sustainable economic and social development of the country, in a context of complex regional and international conditions. for this reason, the european parliament, in its resolution on ecuador's accession to the trade agreement, urged the government of ecuador to take into account the action plans submitted by colombia and peru and to take appropriate measures which should be submitted before the vote in the european parliament on ecuador's accession to the trade agreement. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which stresses the amendments to the trade agreement which are necessary to take account of the accession of ecuador.
in writing. ‒ we support the agreement, which supports historical fishing rights in this area and will be beneficial for the implementation of the revised cfp in the kattegat and skagerrak area.
in writing. ‒ the traditionally, fishermen do not fish in certain waters: fish for specific stocks or species and fish in waters where those stocks or species occur and also follow migratory species. this tradition predates the creation of states and the recognition of territorial waters and - much later - exclusive economic zones. the kattegat and skagerrak are a good example. since at least the middle ages, swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together in these waters for the same stocks. the fact that two of these countries have become member states has not affected the principle that fishermen from the three countries have the historical right to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat. respect for this historic right is of the utmost importance. the eu's common fisheries policy provides for a system of management of fish stocks in the waters covered by it and in its own way supports the historical rights of fishermen. the agreement also supports historical fishing rights in this area and will be beneficial for the implementation of the revised cfp in the kattegat and skagerrak. we therefore voted in favour of the report so that the agreement can be adopted.
in writing. ‒ the i support the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flags of denmark, norway and sweden, because since the middle ages, swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together in these waters for the same stocks. the fact that two of these countries have become member states has not affected the principle that fishermen from the three countries have the historical right to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat. respect for this historic right is of the utmost importance. the eu's common fisheries policy provides for a system of management of fish stocks in the waters covered by it and in its own way supports the historical rights of fishermen. the agreement also supports historical fishing rights in this area and will be beneficial for the implementation of the revised cfp in the kattegat and skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ the traditionally, fishermen do not fish in certain waters: fish for specific stocks or species and fish in waters where those stocks or species occur and also follow migratory species. this tradition predates the creation of states and the recognition of territorial waters and - much later - exclusive economic zones. the kattegat and skagerrak are a good example. since at least the middle ages, swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have been fishing together in these waters for the same stocks. the fact that two of these countries have become member states has not affected the principle that fishermen from the three countries have the historical right to fish in the skagerrak and kattegat. respect for this historic right is of the utmost importance. the eu's common fisheries policy provides for a system of management of fish stocks in the waters covered by it and in its own way supports the historical rights of fishermen. the agreement also supports historical fishing rights in the kattegat and skagerrak. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the agreement, which supports historical fishing rights in this area and will be beneficial for the implementation of the revised cfp in the kattegat and skagerrak area.
in writing. ‒ we voted against this non-legislative resolution, as it is identical to the position we took in the vote on the report by the same rapporteur (a8-0321/2016) on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden.
in writing. ‒ the fishermen from denmark, norway and sweden have traditionally always fished together in the kattegat and skagerrak. this agreement supports the historical fishing rights of fishermen from denmark, norway and sweden in the kattegat and skagerrak, without prejudice to the rights of fishermen from other states, while also ensuring that appropriate fisheries management and conservation measures are taken in these areas. the agreement also supports the implementation of the reformed eu fisheries management system, established in line with the objectives and basic principles of the new common fisheries policy (cfp), in particular the introduction of the landing obligation and mandatory measures to maintain stocks above levels allowing maximum sustainable yield. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report as there are clear operational needs for europol to deepen operational cooperation with georgia.
in writing. ‒ the although the issue of the exchange of personal data was not raised in this report, we have always taken a critical approach to europol agreements. we fully support the fight against organised crime and human trafficking. but at the same time we want to see police cooperation at the state level. the agreement is more political and is part of the process of putting pressure on russia and increasing the eu's policy in georgia. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i vote against the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by europol of the service and strategic cooperation agreement between georgia and europol. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu-georgia association agreement, which is currently being negotiated. according to europol, georgia is becoming increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, in particular as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and an important partner in the fight against organised crime groups from georgia. in this respect, the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia will help and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which is by definition international.
in writing. ‒ the the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules on cooperation between europol and the member states in the field of the prevention of, and fight against, the illicit trafficking in human beings and the illicit exploitation of nuclear material. according to europol, georgia is becoming increasingly important in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, in particular as a transit country for so-called foreign fighters and an important partner in the fight against organised crime groups from georgia. in this respect, the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia will help and strengthen the fight against terrorism and organised crime, which is by definition international. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the although the issue of the exchange of personal data was not raised in this report, we have always taken a critical approach to europol agreements. we fully support the fight against organised crime and human trafficking. but at the same time we want to see police cooperation at the state level. the agreement is more political and is part of the process of putting pressure on russia and increasing the eu's policy in georgia. we have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report, as spain has given all the necessary assurances.
in writing. ‒ we voted to withdraw funds from the eu globalisation fund to be given to the 250 workers who were made redundant. however, we deplore the practice of some companies of using accounting tricks to transfer services to other areas and thus avoid labour costs, with the result that workers have to resort to such mechanisms.
in writing. ‒ the the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in the pattern of world trade. i voted in favour of the report which provides for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant following the bankruptcy and closure of bosal s.a., the company which made the majority of the redundancies and which was active in the automotive sector. the services to be provided to the dismissed workers are classified into twelve different categories of actions such as personalised services, benefits and incentives.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the report because we disagree with key points in it.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the recommendation for a second reading, as the regulation is no longer compatible with the existing legal environment. in particular, the existing text of the regulation is discriminatory, as it provides for the possibility of compensation to only 40 companies specified in the annexes to the regulation. therefore, maintaining the current regulation is not an option unless the list of railway undertakings is continuously updated.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the report because we disagree with key points in it.
in writing. ‒ the in the last decade, three legislative 'railway packages' have been designed to open up national markets and make railways more competitive and more interoperable at eu level. in order to complete the opening of the domestic market for rail passenger transport to competition, the european commission has proposed to revise the current regulation 1370/2007 by deleting the possibility of directly awarding public service contracts. in its proposal, the european commission addressed some market challenges for new entrants that prevent them from competing with the incumbent (e.g. sncf, sncb, deutsche bahn), such as the lack of access to information needed to facilitate successful participation in public procurement procedures or the unavailability of a market for rolling stock. a second barrier to entry for new entrants is access to road equipment. i voted in favour of this report, which stresses the importance of improving the quality of passenger rail transport and enhancing its operational efficiency, thereby improving the competitiveness and attractiveness of the rail transport sector in relation to other modes of transport and further developing the single european railway area.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the report because we disagree with key points in it.
in writing. ‒ the this legislative proposal, also known as the 'governance directive', aims to open up the domestic rail passenger market to increase competitive pressure on domestic rail markets, to increase the quantity and improve the quality of passenger transport and to improve the governance of the infrastructure manager to ensure equal access to infrastructure. increased competition is expected to enhance the attractiveness of railways and make the railway sector more sensitive to customer needs, allowing railway undertakings to compete with other modes of transport. further development of high-speed passenger transport should also make railways more competitive by increasing their market share and contributing to climate change objectives. the increase in railway activity is also expected to increase the demand for skilled workers and rail service facility operators, as well as the demand for rolling stock, thus leading to the creation of new jobs in the railway construction industry. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and ask the commission to resubmit the proposal if it intends to make substantial amendments or replace it with a new text.
in writing. ‒ the report concerns access to the market for port services and financial transparency in ports. the report is unfortunately aimed at deregulating and liberalising port services. many reforms are being introduced to reduce costs (and all that this entails) and increase competitiveness in order to attract private investors. many labour rights are at stake. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the the aim of the proposal is to contribute to efforts to make the trans-european transport network more efficient, interconnected and sustainable by creating a framework to improve port efficiency and help to cope with changes in transport and logistics requirements. the main objectives of the proposal include the modernisation of port services and operations and the creation of key conditions for attracting investment in ports. the emphasis is also on good working conditions, which are an important part of the competitiveness of ports. the agreement also takes account of the special situation of ports in the outermost regions. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the we voted against the report because its main objective is the deregulation and liberalization of port services. many reforms are being introduced to reduce costs (with all the implications for workers) and increase competitiveness in order to attract private investors. the proposals that are being put forward put many workers' rights at risk.
in writing. ‒ we support the appointment of juhan parts, who has the necessary qualifications and experience.
in writing. ‒ the the court of auditors is a body composed of 28 members, one from each member state. the members are appointed by the council, after consulting the european parliament, for a renewable term of six years. the members shall elect the chairman from among themselves for a renewable term of three years. the nomination of juhan parts, former prime minister of estonia and minister of finance, came as a result of the appointment of former member of the court of auditors, kersti kaljulaid, as president of estonia. i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr parts as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and call on the commission to amend its proposal accordingly, in accordance with article 293 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and article 106a of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community.
in writing. ‒ we voted in favour of the report as it gives an objective picture of the problems facing the coal and steel industries, their environmental performance and the safety of workers in these industries. in addition, the fund is expected to support the coal and steel industries until more sustainable solutions are found.
in writing. ‒ the the european commission's research fund for coal and steel was set up in 2002 to support the competitiveness of the european coal and steel sectors, building on the legacy of the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community. i voted in favour of the report proposing to amend the legal basis of the research programme following the periodic evaluation of the management rules in order to ensure transparent management of a programme funded from the general budget of the eu and under the responsibility of the commission by applying the commission's rules on expert groups and to facilitate access to funding for beneficiaries, with simplified rules and with a proportional alignment with the rules of the general research programme horizon 2020. it is also important that establishments and companies comply with all legal requirements relating to social responsibility, offer lasting solutions and minimise the social consequences of the switch-over or closure of establishments.
in writing. ‒ the this research focuses on environmental performance, process improvement, resource conservation and occupational safety in the coal and steel sectors. the coal and steel industries face serious problems at union level which clearly cannot be solved by this fund, but it will be a useful tool to support these sectors. we are particularly concerned that this fund should be used to find viable solutions to maintain these two sectors, taking into account their long-term viability. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and express deep concern that the promotion and protection of human rights and democratic values are under threat worldwide and that the universality of human rights is seriously challenged in many parts of the world, including by authoritarian regimes, but also by terrorist organisations such as the so-called islamic state.
in writing. ‒ the report is about human rights and democracy in the world and eu policy in this area. the report contains a great deal of information. we stress that we are in no way opposed to human rights, but we are their first ambassadors. the report does, however, in fact further promote all the mechanisms currently in operation, many of which we have criticised at times. it supports the cfsp, the european army, the sophia mechanism, the eu's migration policy, etc., policies which we consider to be contrary to the objective of defending human rights. for all these reasons we abstained from this report.
in writing. ‒ the in an environment marked by instability and conflict in the middle east and parts of asia and africa, the ensuing migration crisis and repeated terrorist attacks against civilians, 2015 was a year of particular challenges for the european union and the international community in general. the islamic state has expanded its operations into areas of syria and iraq, committing mass atrocities and human rights violations, in particular against minority groups. a worrying trend of intimidation and attacks against activists and members of civil society was also observed. there is strong concern about the numerous, ever-increasing attempts to reduce the space for action of civil society and human rights defenders, and the increase in the number of repressive laws being enacted around the world, under the pretext of fighting terrorism (through the introduction of anti-terrorism laws). i voted in favour of the report because today's complex crises and widespread violations and abuses of human rights and fundamental freedoms require ever more determined efforts by the eu. the eu must respond to challenges through targeted action, with systematic and coordinated use of the instruments at its disposal and improved impact of its policies and tools on the ground.
in writing. ‒ we are committed to respecting and promoting human rights in all ways. the report, however, promotes all the mechanisms that the eu has which work in the opposite direction. it supports the cfsp, promotes the strengthening of the european army, the sophia mechanisms, the further militarization of the union and the strengthening of its interventionist action in the internal affairs of other states under the pretext of protecting democracy and human rights. for these reasons we abstained.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and stress that the european union faces internal and external challenges, including interstate conflicts, state collapse, terrorism, hybrid threats, cyber and energy insecurity, organised crime and climate change. we stress that the eu will only be able to meet the new challenges effectively if its structures and its member states work together in a joint and genuinely coordinated effort within the cfsp/cfsp.
in writing. ‒ the the report concerns the implementation of the common foreign and security policy in the union. the report is an annual one and unfortunately, like the previous ones, it is part of the general philosophy of the need for the eu to become a strong international player. the need to align the foreign policies of the member states and to express themselves through a single voice is emphasized in several places. we understand that this serves the interests of the eu's ruling circles, which are aiming at full identification with the usa and nato. the report itself reaffirms our position that today there is a further militarization of foreign policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are fundamentally opposed to the militarisation of foreign policy that is being promoted and we are calling, among other things, for no funding of military missions from the eu budget and for a clear separation of the eu from nato. we call for the eu to become a pillar of peace and not war. that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the the report, as every year, is part of the general philosophy of the need for the eu to become a strong international player. in addition to the alignment of member states' foreign policies and the expression of a single voice, the report highlights the commission's new plans for a common defence and military policy. this of course serves the eu's ruling circles who aim at full identification with the usa and nato. we voted against the report and our group put forward a minority view, opposing the militarization of foreign policy being promoted and calling for the immediate withdrawal of funding for military missions from the eu budget. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to prevent it from spreading.
in writing. ‒ the we support the report and stress that agricultural activity depends on biological processes. it is therefore highly dependent on climatic conditions and affected by plant and animal diseases natural factors beyond the control of farmers. the variation in farm performance is therefore much more uncertain than that of other sectors of the economy. income uncertainty mainly affects investment and innovation negatively and is capable of undermining the economic viability of holdings. in addition, fluctuations in production mean that agricultural markets have an inherent tendency to be unstable. it is widely accepted that excessive volatility benefits neither producers (by affecting market signals and making incomes uncertain) nor consumers (by affecting their food choice).
in writing. ‒ the agricultural activity depends on biological processes. it is therefore highly dependent on climatic conditions and affected by plant and animal diseases and natural factors beyond the control of farmers. the variation in farm performance is therefore much more uncertain than that of other sectors of the economy. income uncertainty mainly affects investment and innovation negatively and is capable of undermining the economic viability of holdings. in addition, fluctuations in production mean that agricultural markets have an inherent tendency to be unstable. it is generally accepted that excessive volatility benefits neither producers (by affecting market signals and making incomes uncertain) nor consumers (by affecting their food choice). i therefore voted in favour of the above resolution.
in writing. ‒ the the instability and volatility of prices have always characterised the agricultural market and in recent years, due to the rapid succession of supply, demand and price disturbances, they have become a structural feature of agriculture, both at european and global level. unfortunately, the current cap has failed to deal with the high volatility of prices on agricultural markets and places an excessive burden on the producer. the report, which i voted in favour of, after analysing the current situation and identifying the main problems, proposes various improvements for the forthcoming cap reform, such as strengthened sectoral organisation and syndication, better protection of farmers' incomes by creating risk management tools adapted to price volatility, greater market transparency by creating price observatories.
s & d) and the i am sure that what we have just heard does not represent the europe we all dream of, because we are faced with a political and legal issue. is it ever possible in a member state of the european union - and this is the essential question - that the community acquis on collective agreements is not applied on the pretext that this country is under a memorandum? that is the question before us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in what treaty of the european union is it allowed to have second-class citizens in the european union? not one! so despite all the difficult budgetary objectives, despite all the management of the refugee flows, despite all the threats from erdogan, despite the fact that greece is guarding the external borders of the european union with the support of the greek people, instead of being rewarded it is being punished. that's the substance of it.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the madam president, today the institutions (the commission, the council and the imf) are more clearly than ever betraying the people, and in particular the greek people. the imf and the eu institutions blame each other for who imposes the tough measures on the people and the workers. at the same time, they are promoting a flagrant violation of workers' rights to collective bargaining and collective agreements in the countries where memoranda have been imposed on them. it was the european union together with the international monetary fund that forced the collapse of the institution of collective bargaining in greece in 2010 and led to the reduction of workers' coverage by collective agreement from 80 to 40% within six years. the same was done in portugal, cyprus, italy and spain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr legutko, you have had eight minutes to argue and, with all due respect, your argument shows that you think that everyone here has been misled, not to mention that your argument all seems to think that we may have gone mad. what do you think is the main reason for our attitude? what is wrong with us ?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the i have just one question, mr president, commissioner: what is the commission's position on the question of the use of the euro? recently, mrs mogherini told the foreign affairs committee that the commission and its bureau were working on alternative solutions to the european union agreement with turkey, explaining that she was referring to possible new agreements with other states in the region, which would be financed to attract refugees either from turkey or if we have any hope of a new wave of refugees. my question is whether there are any specific studies of this kind and with which countries and with what funding?
the commission has also adopted a communication on the mr president, the number of refugees arriving in greece may have decreased, but arrivals in italy have increased and the list of refugees drowning at sea is growing all the time. secondly, the refugees you are sending back on the basis of the unacceptable agreement with turkey are not only not receiving any support but are being victimized for the second time. turkey sends them to syria, pushes them back to the sea or tolerates them, without even ensuring their basic needs for shelter and food. this is the tragic reality. these are the results of an unacceptable deal you made with turkey. instead of abolishing dublin, you are reintroducing it more strongly, to put more pressure on countries like greece that are taking in the biggest waves of refugees. despite promises to resettle 160,000 refugees, only 8,000 refugees have been resettled from greece and italy. commissioner, unless all states show immediate and practical solidarity, the refugee crisis will continue to escalate and innocent lives will continue to be lost, with the european union as the main cause.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. i didn't just take the floor for the obvious. i would like to say that there is also a shared responsibility of the member states which enjoy this right and of the members of the european parliament who come from the member states which enjoy this right, and i think that the commissioner can use the member states which have this right to exert more pressure, not only on the states concerned but also on the other states. they have a responsibility to this issue.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and consider that visa policy is a key issue for the european union, with an impact on both external action and internal security. it is precisely because of its importance that it is clearly regulated as a field of common competence between the co-legislators under the ordinary procedure.
in writing. ‒ we support the objection report.
in writing. ‒ the the report concerns protection measures to prevent the introduction of new pests affecting citrus trees and their fruit, as the existing ones are not sufficient to protect european producers. the report calls for stricter rules and controls to prevent the spread of harmful organisms affecting citrus fruit and expects the commission to follow parliament's recommendations. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the objection concerning a proposal for a new implementing act on plant health measures for the import of plants and plant products. the commission's draft will amend the existing rules for citrus fruit intended for processing in certain countries. the proposed amendments are not in line with the new regulation and would represent a high phytosanitary risk for europe.
in writing. ‒ we believe it is essential to recognise the demands of thalidomide survivors in europe to ensure their autonomy, access to healthcare and a decent quality of life.
in writing. ‒ the thalidomide was used as a medicine to combat morning sickness in pregnant women, as well as to treat headaches, insomnia and colds in the late 1950s and early 1960s. this medicine has been on the market in several european countries for several years and has been shown to cause serious side effects in pregnant women whose babies are born with birth defects. this tragedy has affected several member states, and there the victims continue to seek a solution to cover the costs associated with the disease and their physical condition, which is deteriorating over time. this shows the importance of effective eu legislation to ensure that medicinal products placed on the market are subject to high standards of quality and safety. i have therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ the thalidomide was used as a morning sickness medication in pregnant women, as well as for the treatment of headaches, insomnia and colds, in the late 1950s and early 1960s. this treatment proved to have very serious side effects for pregnant women, whose babies were born with deformities. the resolution in question relates to financial support for the victims of thalidomide, which is why we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we call on the commission to renew in horizon 2020 the funding provisions established to support high quality paediatric clinical research.
in writing. ‒ the the paediatric regulation entered into force on 26 january 2007 and its main objective was to improve the health of children in europe by facilitating the development and availability of medicines for children aged 0 to 17 years. the resolution proposes a number of changes to improve the regulation, such as the hierarchy of medicinal product models, more feasible paediatric research programmes and ensuring transparency in the research and development process with regard to the needs of the paediatric population, which is why we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ we support the report and believe that the committee on petitions has the opportunity and the great challenge, following the latest developments in the uk, to develop a dialogue with citizens, as it has the possibility to reconnect the eu institutions with the citizens.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the report because, in addition to reviewing the activities of the committee on petitions, the report took a progressive approach by criticising austerity measures and the rise of racism and xenophobia in the eu. it also calls for a participatory democracy in the eu, for greater participation in the handling of complaints and for the utmost transparency.
in writing. ‒ the i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2015. the committee on petitions has the opportunity and the great challenge, following the latest developments in the united kingdom, to develop a dialogue with citizens, as it has the possibility to reconnect the eu institutions with the citizens. the committee on petitions must listen to and contribute to the solution of problems affecting its citizens, as through its reports the impact of community legislation on their daily lives can be assessed, while at the same time strengthening the european parliament's capacity to react, contributing to the solution of problems mainly related to the implementation of eu legislation. the reports are a valuable source of information as they identify gaps in the implementation of eu legislation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. and we must do this by listening and solving the problems that concern citizens.
in writing. ‒ we are voting against the proposals as we disagree on many points.
in writing. ‒ we voted against the resolution because it stresses to the commission that it should be accountable to parliament for the air transport agreements with the third countries mentioned. the text and the agreement will be dealt with when we have them before us.
